." . to 4: Sicredi BELONGING REGULATIONS CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 19 This Regulation governs the procedures that govern the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management and development process of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - Cooperative Credit System, hereinafter referred to simply as "cooperatives" or "cooperative". Main paragraph. In addition to the provisions of the caput, the Program also aims to implement the cooperatives in order to expand the participation of members in matters related to their management and development, through centers. Art. 29 The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 39 The provisions contained in these Regulations regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after the adjustment of the cooperative's bylaws, contemplating this form of participation, under the terms of current regulations, and apply to cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 19 Cooperatives that serve specific segments and/or categories are optional to adopt this form of member participation as long as they have the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 29 For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will receive the name of nucleus coordinator in this Regulation. CHAPTER ll MEETINGS AND NUCLEO MEETINGS Art. 49 A meeting is considered to be a meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members or coordinators to discuss matters of specific interest to the membership, the nucleus or those defined by the Board of Directors of the cooperative. Single paragraph. The meetings will be organized and held with the prior knowledge of the Board of Directors. Art. 59 A core assembly is considered an event held with members in order to deliberate on: I — the election and dismissal of the core coordinator, effective and substitutes; ll - the matters of the general assembly of the cooperative, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 49 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 19 The call for core assemblies, containing the date, time, place and/or form of their holding and matters to be deliberated, will be made through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably with minimum notice of 10 (ten) days. § 29 The call will, as a rule, be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors. § 39 In the event that the call for the general meeting is carried out by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or following a request not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, nL'ic|eo assemblies must automatically be called. § 49 If the provisions of the paragraph occur previous, at least 3 (three) counselors or associates must sign the notice. 1/6 Classification of information Internal Use." when, at the end, there is a minimum presence of 10 (ten) associates per nucleus. § 79 If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per nucleus, there must be a new call in accordance with § 19 of this article. If there is not enough time to call it, the core vote will not be considered at the general meeting. § 89 The participation of members in the core assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors, who may choose between in-person, semi-in-person or digital forms, without prejudice to the recording of their expressions in the voting exercise. §9‘—’ 05 matters of the core assemblies will be considered approved by the majority of those present. §10. In the event of a tie in the group's voting, the tiebreaker will be exercised by the group's coordinator. If absent, he will break the tie by expressing his vote at the general assembly. §11. When holding core assemblies in a blended or digital format, an interaction channel with the cooperative will be made available. Art. 69 In addition to the specificities described in articles 49 and 59, the meetings of nuclei and assemblies of nuclei are the spaces recognized for qualified participation of members with questions, demonstrations and strategic contributions, as well as learning, formation of cooperative identity and belonging. Single paragraph. The actions structured throughout the year will be considered an integral part of the annual assembly movement when attendance is duly recorded in the Pertencer Program tool, and its activities and results are included in the minutes for the respective treatment. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS Art. 79 S50 rights of members, in addition to those provided for in the cooperative's Bylaws: I — vote and be voted for branch coordinator; ll - propose to the core coordinator any matters of interest to the cooperative to be explained in meetings=; Ill - Discuss and vote on the matters covered by the core assembly. Art. 89 S50 attitudes expected from members: I — know and practice cooperativism; ll - nominate new associates; Ill - take suggestions to appreciation of the center for improving operations, services, customer service, facilities, among others; IV - make yourself available as a candidate for center coordinator. CHAPTER IV NUCLEOS Art. 99 The group of members of the cooperative is considered a nucleus, taking into account the following premises: 2/6 Classification of information Internal Use 3.5 Sicredi I - the cooperative will define the number of members per nucleus, observing the nucleus limit established in the Statute Social, through registration in the minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. The number of members per nucleus cannot be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II — after this definition, the number of members grouped in the centers cannot exceed a variation of 50% (fifty percent) more or less; III - the cooperative must have, at least, 11 (eleven) members, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - for guarantee the right to vote for members of newly opened branches or those that have not reached the number defined in section I of this article by the Board of Directors, it will be up to the Board of Directors to define the form of participation of these members in the centers; V - each nucleus will have an effective nucleus coordinator and at least 1 (one) substitute at the time of the election, and the number of substitutes may be established by the Board of Directors; VI - the grouping in nuclei must observe 0 better service for members, respecting the nucleation criteria defined by the Board of Directors; VII - the cooperative will define the number of nuclei grouped in the same nucleus assembly, preferably not exceeding 5 (five), in the case of in-person assemblies. § 19 When the number of core members exceeds the variation of 50% (fifty percent) of members, more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in the section I of this article. § 29 When the number of centers in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote its amendment. § 39 When the Board of Directors decides to reduce the number of cooperative nuclei, there will be an automatic loss of mandate for the coordinators of the extinct nucleus. CHAPTER V OF THE CORE COORDINATOR Art. 10. The nucleus coordinator is the individual member elected at the nucleus assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and represent members at general assemblies, when the cooperative adopts this modality. Art. 11. To apply and carry out the activities of nucleus coordinator, the applicant must: I — be certified in the Crescer Program; II - make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a political-party position or function upon election, or during the exercise of the mandate, subject to the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws; IV — not respond, due to pending issues related to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, in addition to not having a negative record in any databases, external or within the cooperative itself, as well as having promoted or being promoting, as party or attorney, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other member entity from Sicredi; V - not be an employee of the cooperative or have been dismissed from the cooperative for just cause; :2 3/6 Classification of information Internal Use 3.5 Sicredi VI - not be a former advisor or ex—director who is subject to internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of his term of office or who, for the same reasons, has been dismissed or resigned from the position to which he was elected. Art. 12. Consideration — §the responsibilities of the nucleoz coordinator I — when invited by the Board of Directors, participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the cooperative's social projects; ll - participate in meetings of nucleus coordinators, nucleus meetings and nucleus assemblies; Ill - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - participate, when invited by the President or Board Member, in events of interest to the cooperative=; and V - participate in training of coordinators in the cooperative, disseminating cooperativism. Single paragraph. N50 may be provided by the cooperative with member data to the nucleus coordinator, due to the confidentiality of information. Art. 13. In addition to the matters set out in the sections of art. 49 of these Regulations, will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of core coordinators I — preparation of core assemblies that precede the general assemblies; ll - questions related to the development of cooperative; Ill - analysis of the economic and financial situation of the cooperative; IV - others of interest to the cooperative's administration. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTION PROCESS OF NECTURE COORDINATORS Art. 14. The election of the nucleus coordinators will take place in a nucleus assembly in good time before the general assembly of the cooperative, and the candidate must register using a specific form provided by the cooperative , within the period established in the call for the nucleus assembly. Single paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with the requirements for the role and inform the candidate. Art. 15. The mandate of the core coordinators will comply with the term set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 16. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 17. The following will be considered elected coordinators of nL'1c|eo: I - the member with the most votes and the second most voted by the nucleus will be respectively considered effective coordinator and substitute coordinator, and so on depending on the number of substitutes; ll — the members with the highest number of votes, when presented as candidates jointly (effective and substitute (5)), indicating the order of replacement; Ill - the members presented as candidates (effective and alternate (5)), acclaimed by the Core Assembly. § 19 In any of the hypotheses in items I and ll of this article, it must be registered the replacement order in the election minutes. 4/6 Classification of information Internal Use 3.5 Sicredi § 29 In the event of a tie vote, the member who will perform the duties of effective nucleus coordinator will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, the same rule being valid for substitutes. Art. 18. The investiture of the nucleus coordinators will occur automatically after the announcement of the election results. Art. 19. In the event of the vacancy of the effective nucleus coordinator, he/she will assume the role as the first substitute. If there are no substitutes to take over, the core members will elect new core coordinators in accordance with these Regulations, effective and alternate (5), to fulfill the remainder of the term. § 19 The following circumstances constitute vacancy for nL'1c|eo coordinators: I — loss of membership status; II - failure to attend, without justification, the general meeting of the cooperative, at the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, remission and destitution; IV — health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in their duties; V - as a party or attorney-in-fact, promote legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; VI — no longer meets the conditions for the role of center coordinator, in accordance with these Regulations; VII - be elected member of the Administrative Council or Fiscal Council of the cooperative, or even, director; VIII - exercise a vote at the general assembly that differs from that defined by the nucleus; IX — hold a position in the corporate bodies of a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; X - transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; and XI — become an employee of another financial institution. § 29 In the event that the nucleus coordinator is nominated as a candidate for a political—partisan position, he must submit a request for resignation within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention at which the nomination is confirmed or 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after assuming one of the positions mentioned above, under penalty of the position being vacated. For the purposes of this Regulation, a political-partisan position is understood to be the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws. § 39 The dismissal of the nucleus coordinator will occur by deliberation of the members in a nucleus assembly. Other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. CHAPTER VII REPRESENTATIVENESS OF NUCILEO COORDINATORS Art. 20. The effective micleo coordinators will be summoned to represent the members at the general assemblies of the cooperative and, if they are unable to attend, their substitutes. § 19 Whenever the effective core coordinator is present at the general assembly, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. 5/6 Classification of information Internal Use 3.5 Sicredi § 29 As soon as you become aware of the impossibility of attending the general meeting or needing to be absent when it has already started, the effective nucleus coordinator must communicate the fact to his deputy and also to the cooperative, for his replacement. § 39 If it is impossible for the nL'Ic|eo coordinator, effective and alternate(s), to participate in the general assembly, the President of the assembly may request the secretary or another associate, who will remain in the position of representative for 0 until, that presents the vote, reading the voting results of the respective vote, in order to be computed at the general assembly, restrictively to those matters that were previously considered at the NI'Ic|eo Assembly. § 49 According to the system provided for in § 49 of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the vote of the node coordinator will not be linked to the decisions of the nucleus he represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the nucleus assembly. § 59 The absence of the coordinator at the assembly general will be informed by the cooperative to the respective nucleus at the first nucleus assembly that takes place. CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 21. The node coordinator will not receive any type of financial compensation, except for the reimbursement of his expenses for carrying out his role, which must be decided by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 22. Meetings and core assemblies held by the cooperative must be registered in advance in the management tool for the Pertencer Program. Art. 23. The cooperative starting its activity or recently integrated into the System will join this Program after evaluation and recommendation from the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. WE DECLARE FOR DUE PURPOSES THAT THESE REGULATIONS ARE A FAITHFUL AND AUTHENTIC COPY OF WHAT IS DRAWN UP IN MINUTE BOOK NUMBER 5, PAGES 81 to 86, OF GENERAL MEETINGS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE CENTRO SERRA — SICREDI CENTRO SERRA LOL. Candeléria/RS, May 2, 2022. DILAMAR VALNEI RUSCH MARLON NORTON KOBS CPF n.9 640.897.700-68 CPF n.9 910.057.600-04 Executive Director Director of Operations 6/6 Classification of informationz Internal Use Digitally signed by Digitally signed by MARLON NORTON KOBS DILAMAR VALNEI RUSCH Date 05/05/2022 12:04:19 - Date 05/06/2022 08:44:19 - 03:00 03:00 CPF: 91005760004 CPF: 64089770068