Classification of information: Unrestricted Use BYLAWS OF THE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT ALTO RIO GRANDE MG – Sicredi Credigrande MG CNPJ Nº 25.626.490/0001 -67 NIRE Nº 31400003746 CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, TERM DURATION AND INTEGRATION TO SICRE DI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1º The Cooperativa de Crédito, Savings and Investment Alto Rio Grande MG – Sicredi Credigrande MG, established at the general meeting of December 12, 1988, originally called Cooperativa de Crédito Rural Alto Rio Grande Ltda – Sicoob Credigrande, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws , with: I - headquarters, administration and legal forum in Lavras, at Praça Doutor Augusto Silva, n. 728, Centro, CEP 37.200 -154, in the State of Minas Gerais; II - area of action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, limited to the municipalities of Lavras, Ribeirão Vermelho, Carrancas, Ijaci, Itumirim, Cana Verde, Cruzília, Mindurí, Luminárias, Ingaí, Ibituruna, Carmo da Cachoeira, Itutinga, Nazareno, Nepomuceno, Perdões, São Bento Abade and São Thomé das Letras, in the State of Minas Gerais; III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment in the South and Southeast - Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo s Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi Sul/Sudeste, on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3º The disaffiliation of the Cooperative, on its own initiative, it also depends on the agreement of: I - the majority of its associates, to become independent; II - the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use §4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5 Entry and The Cooperative's permanence in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - with systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with its own regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally defined by the System; III - regulation official and internal regulations of Sicredi. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, aiming to assist it in resolving irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to transactions in the account bank reserves, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 9º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 8º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of cooperatives individuals affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 10. The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 11. The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports arising from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with the regulations own, form a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 14. The expression "legislation" comprises laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE OBJECT Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out credit cooperative operations, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and development programs institutional, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. §1 In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. §2º The cooperative may, at its discretion, make available to non-members all financial and non-financial products and services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, including payment services in the form of acquirer and payment transaction initiator. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gain of scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, in compliance with internal regulations and legislation. current. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activities in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative may be members of the Cooperative; Information classification: Unrestricted Use II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of deceased member, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; VII – individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities that reside or are established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, excluding, for this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to the other Central. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2º of art t. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their activities main activities, exercise effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - the one who move amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items I V and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, subject to the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to the statutes and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or normative-statutory infraction committed by associate; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general assembly; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information about the demonstrations financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; Information classification: Unrestricted Use VII - maintain updated registration information. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which they are approved by the general assembly the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred. § 1 The liability of associates, in accordance with applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with your personal assets, Members who, through intentional or negligent action or omission, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly comply with obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use III - violation of Sicredi's internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as an administration advisor or director. § 1º They may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Administration, members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days he or she can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in his/her opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the communication of the elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5 When any advisor or director falls foul of the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him/her, as appropriate, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that in the within 15 (fifteen) days, present your reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing these, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as the case may be. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the cases set out in §§ 5 and 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3 of this Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares - subscribed parts, prevailing, as a minimum, the value of R$ 10,00.00 (ten thousand reais), and must be paid in current currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 01 (one) share. § 3 The request for re-entry of the member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of the credit limit of each member, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new shares - shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, monthly subscription and payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. . § 6º A share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 ( one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The quotas - parts of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to others associates or third parties. § 8º The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter VIII of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, allowing payment to be split in installments by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 11. The portions covered by the previous paragraph, from the date of first release until the day they are made available to the interested party, they will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the shutdown presents leftovers; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 70 (seventy) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining its status as an associate, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 14. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 15. The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of social capital initiated by associates more flexible, including for the purpose of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article . § 16. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit resulting from the value of their share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he/she left the membership. In the event of a remaining outstanding balance arising from any obligation of the member disconnected, the Cooperative may charge you using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 18. The return referred to in §§ 1 3, 14 and 15, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be given at the discretion of this collegiate body, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, Payment in installments by the Cooperative is also permitted. § 19. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 20. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by that member may be compensated, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective quotas, surpluses or annual remuneration on capital quotas, Classification of information: Unrestricted use, maintaining your status as a member with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 21. The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. CHAPTER V OF GENERAL MEETING: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions in the interest of the Society , and the deliberations bind everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. § 1 The rendering of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of components of the Boards of directors, when they are matters on the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously considered in core assemblies. § 2 The other matters on the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly in Delegates' Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform the members later. § 4º A Coordination of core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, or by the Vice-President, or, if this is impossible, by whoever he indicates. §5 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance. days, through a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or, after a request not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain: subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for member participation, in the event of carrying out remote assembly, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its publication, for the purpose of the installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 The assemblies General meetings may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt systems and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, on first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, without, however, having their voice and vote. § 1 Delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If you are elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, must simultaneously resign from the post of delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by the members in their respective groups, the delegate's vote at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies for delegates among the nuclei will be carried out based on the specific regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its associates in up to 50 (fifty) centers, observing its own regulations; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 1 One person will be elected effective delegate and at least one alternate delegate, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in the society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and terms procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, being installed, immediately, an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general assemblies will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Nucleus in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Nucleus will be represented by the his alternate or another appointed associate, as applicable. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except with regard to matters falling within the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for whose validity the votes of 2 /3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. The deliberations and other substantial events at the meetings will consist of minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum, as in the opening as in the restart(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 24. The annual general assembly will be held obligatorily once a year, within the legal deadline, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned on the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the independent audit report, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of the members of the board of directors; IV - fixing, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses for the members of the Council; V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in the form of the art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI OF ELECTORAL PROCESS Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission constituted specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same board. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 05 (five) advisors, including a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - do not maintain employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the board of directors or the Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; III - not be, simultaneously, an employee or administrator or hold interest in a company that, due to its activities, is considered as competitor of any of the entities that are part of Sicred i or in whose capital they participate; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations in the Cooperative or in another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII – have an unblemished reputation; VIII – be a resident of the country; IX - not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime of bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property or the Financial System National, or sentenced to a sentence that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; X - not be declared disqualified or suspended from holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies in institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil or in supplementary pension entities, insurance companies, capitalization companies, publicly-held companies or entities subject to the supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission ; XI – not be declared bankrupt or insolvent; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use XII - not having, through intent or fault, committed irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; XIII - have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last 2 (two) financial years (being an active member) and have regularly participated in core assemblies. XIV - have participated, in the immediately previous year, or participated in courses and other training and recycling events programmed by the System, according to the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at directors during the period of their mandate, up to 1 (one) year after taking office; XV - have time availability to fully fulfill statutory and legal responsibilities, with accumulation with another position or function (elective or not) that requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative being prohibited; XVI - have certification from the Crescer Program; XVII - preferably be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he or she is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XVIII - have training in a higher-level course; XIX - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XX - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its members statutory or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by the entities forming part of Sicredi; XXI - not having suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. § 1 For the purposes of section VII, the unblemished reputation will be assessed considering the existence of: criminal proceedings or police investigation; judicial or administrative process that is related to the Financial System National or the Brazilian Payment System; proceedings relating to insolvency, liquidation, intervention, bankruptcy or judicial recovery; failure to fulfill obligations; and other similar situations, occurrences or circumstances. When analyzing these situations and occurrences, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will counselors and directors who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during their term of office or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, with the elected will remain in office until the successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, Information classification: Usage Unrestricted by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) to said position(s), whether or not confirming the position(s) appointed(s), and the elected person(s) will serve the remaining time of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - no attendance, without prior justification, at 2 (two) consecutive or 3 (three) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood to be: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councilman, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated with a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated post – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, ordinarily, at least every 2 (two) months, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President or the majority of the Board itself ; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the C olegiate and other Substantial occurrences at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest own, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and these Bylaws, the Board of Directors is responsible, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and competencies and the individual remuneration of Directors, in compliance with the provisions contained in the bylaws; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in the terms of current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate the allegations of infractions committed in the context of sociability, including those sent to them by the Executive Board, and determine the application of the appropriate penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital participations in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, in compliance with complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the Co-operative's membership and community and in compliance with current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines about; XIV - authorize the change of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as deliberating on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of other facilities or branches of the Cooperative, within or outside the headquarters municipality, in accordance with current legislation; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use XVI - express an opinion on the administration report and accountability for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing the share capital of the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as as well as omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general meeting, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of relative work plans, specifically, the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, to the Board of Directors for consideration, monitoring their implementation; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the demonstration of surpluses and losses and the independent audit opinion, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use associates; XII – apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies whose capital the Cooperative participate. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, one being an Executive Director and one Director of Operations, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They might also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, removed by the Board of Directors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed economy companies ; II - in the granting of documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that implies the lack of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to XII and XIX to XXI, as well as § 2; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a higher education degree; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V – meet the complementary systemic requirements when provided for in the regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations, is responsible for: I - managing the Cooperative operationally, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi’s corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, observing the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judici clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, in compliance with the provisions of these Statutes; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such businesses; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution monthly, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use administration; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities typical of the Cooperative’s ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the expansion plans and activities of the Cooperative, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the economic and financial planning of the Cooperative Cooperative; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) respond for management analyzes on the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) be responsible for internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as directing measures in the supervision process and ensuring respect for internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond to the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on systemic strategic planning guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use b) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the credit budget rural, as well as its requirements; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board Members and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, through reckless management or serious omission of duties, determine loss to the Company, will be held directly liable, with their own assets, for compensation for the damages. . § 2º The Cooperative, through its social bodies, jointly or individually, from now on here authorized, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including at the judicial level, to promote the accountability of the Board of Directors and Directors whose actions or omissions, as per the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 38. The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one) year, with closure on December 31st. Art. 39. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 40. The surpluses determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 55% (fifty-five percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and meet the development of the Cooperative; II - 5% (five percent), at least, for the Technical Assistance Fund, Educational and Social (FATES), aimed at providing assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in its area of ​​action; III - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1 Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the required/stipulated asset structure, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares - shares of the members' capital or additionally allocated to the reserve fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the amounts in losses recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 4 1. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the exercise ended. Art. 4 2. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER IX DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION Art. 4 3. In addition to other hypotheses provided for by law, the Cooperative dissolves itself as of right: I - when the general assembly so decides, provided that 20 (twenty) members, at least, do not leave willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 4 4. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use CHAPTER OMBUDSMAN OFFICE - SHARED OMBUDSMAN OFFICE Art. 4 5. The Cooperative will maintain an agreement to carry out ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with current legislation. CHAPTER Art. 47. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be assumed to be received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 48. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization manifested individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 49. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when appropriate, the social bodies. Lavras (MG), April 28, 2023. WE DECLARE FOR DUE PURPOSES THAT THESE BYLAWS IS A FAITHFUL AND AUTHENTIC COPY OF THE CONTENT IN THE RESPECTIVE MINUTE BOOK NUMBER 5, OF GENERAL MEETINGS OF THE CREDIT COOPERATIVE, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT ALTO RIO GRANDE MG – SICREDI CREDIGRANDE MG. ___________________________ René Ribeiro de Lima CPF n. 903.057.876 -91 Executive Director ___________________________ Luciano Castro Maciel CPF n. 032.469.086 -05 Operations Director