Sicredi Ceara Centro Norte - Credit Cooperative of the Center North of Ceará Av. Dom Luís, No. 300, Room 166 - Meireles, Fortaleza - CE, Zip Code: 60.160 -196 CNPJ 72.257.793/0001 -30 - NIRE 23400005793 NOTICE OF CALL CALL FOR EXTRA ORDINARY DIGITAL GENERAL ASSEMBLY (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43 -A) The President of the Board of Directors of SICREDI CEARA CENTRO NORTE - Credit Cooperative of the Central North Region of Ceará, with headquarters at Av. Dom Luís, n° 300, Sala 166 - Meireles, Fortaleza - CE, CEP: 60.160 -196, registered with the CNPJ under nº 72.257.793/0001 -30, using the powers conferred on it by the Cooperative's Social Statute, summons its ASSOCIATES from the Headquarters Agency and Posts of Service (PA) Santos Dumont, Pátio Dom Luis, Hospital Regional Unimed, Washington Soares, Montese, Limoeiro do Norte, Russas, Morada Nova, Quixadá, Crateús, Tauá, Sobral, Itapipoca, Aracati and Eusébio able to vote, who on this date it totals m 25,425 (twenty-five thousand, four hundred and twenty-five) members, in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet in an EXTRA ORDINARY PRE-GENERAL ASSEMBLY (Joint Assembly of Nuclei), to be held digitally, on the 20th July 2022 (Wednesday), at 5:30 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 6:30 pm, with the presence of half plus one of the associates, on second call; at 7:30 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, simultaneously, using the Digital Assembly Tool accessed through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: 1 ) Broad reform of the Bylaws of Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte, adapting it to the standard model of the Sicredi System. Approval and Consolidation of the Statute Social. 2) Approval of Sicredi’s Internal Regulations. Observations: a) As determined by Article 35 of the Cooperative's Bylaws, this Pre-General Assembly will be restricted exclusively to the aforementioned agenda, in compliance with the legal and doctrinal principles of binding the convening act and the inalterability of the notice of convocation; b) In deliberative votes, only valid votes will be considered, that is, “for” and “against”; c) The deliberations taken at the Pre-Joint General Assembly, bind their respective delegates to maintain the same decision at the General Assembly of Delegates, as provided in Article 40 of the Rules for the Election of Delegates; d) If the effective Delegate and the alternate are absent at the Pre-Assembly, both will be prevented from voting at the General Assembly of Delegates, as provided in Article 40 § 4 of the Rules for the Election of Delegates; e) The member must have updated their telephone number and mailing address e-mail at the cooperative, through the Sicredi application (APP), Internet Banking or by going to your branch; f) Instructions for participation and voting in the Digital Assembly Tool: Members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital using any device with internet access. Then, identify yourself with your CPF and register a password to access the Assembly. g) On the day and time of the Assembly, the member must access Click again on the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, enter your CPF, registered password and click on your cooperative's event. This way, you will be able to participate in discussions and votes on items on the agenda. h) Legal Entity members must register using the CPF of their legal representative. i) Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the meeting participation tool will be available to associates on the website www.sicredi.com.br/coop/cearacentronorte and on the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital. j) Members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, will be guaranteed the right to express themselves in writing, addressed to the board of directors, via chat, thus safeguarding your full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction no. 81/2020 . k) Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool. l) The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43 -A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN DRE I nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, through formal request. Fortaleza, June 27, 202 2. Glauco Kleming Florêncio da Cunha Chairman of the Board of Directors