Information classification: Internal Use SICREDI CEARA CENTRO NORTE - CREDIT COOPERATIVA DA REGION CENTRO NORTE DO CEARÁ Av. Dom Luís, n° 300, Sala 166 - Meireles, Fortaleza - CE, CEP: 60.160 -196 CNPJ 72.257.793/0001 - 30 - NIRE 23400005793 CALL NOTICE PRE-ORDINARY DIGITAL GENERAL MEETING (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43 -A) The President of the Board of Directors of SICREDI CEARA CENTRO NORTE - Credit Cooperative of the Central North Region from Ceará , with headquarters at Av. Dom Luís, n° 300, Sala 166 - Meireles, Fortaleza - CE, CEP: 60.160 -196, registered with the CNPJ under nº 72.257.793/0001 -30, in the use of the powers conferred by the Bylaws of the Cooperative, summons its MEMBERS from the Head Office and Service Stations (PA) Santos Dumont, Pátio Dom Luis, Hospital Regional Unimed, Washington Soares, Montese, Limoeiro do Norte, Russas, Morada Nova, Quixadá, Crateús, Tauá, Sobral, Itapipoca and Aracati able to vote, which in this date totals 23,141 (twenty-three thousand, one hundred and forty-one) members, in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet in PRE-ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY (Joint Assembly of Nuclei), to be held digitally, on March 16, 2022 (Wednesday), at 8:00 am, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 9:00 am, with the presence of half plus one of the associates, on second call; at 10:00 am, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly Tool accessed through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: 1) Election of Members of the Fiscal Council for the 2022/2024 biennium, being: a) Voting time: from the installation of the electoral process at the beginning of the assembly, until at 7:30 pm; b) Modality: Digital, using the Digital Assembly Tool, with the member being able to vote using their cell phone, tablet, private computer or electronic equipment available at the branches. At branches, the same business hours will be respected. c) Calculation of the result: after the end of voting hours, during the course of the assembly; d) Registration of plates without delay until 17:00 on 03/04/2022, at the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Avenida Dom Luís no. 300, store 166, Bairro Meireles, in Fortaleza (CE), from Monday to Friday, except holidays and recess. 2) Other items on the agenda with the presentation starting at 7:30 pm: 2.1) Accountability of the Board of Directors, accompanied by the Opinion of the Fiscal Council and the Independent Audit, comprising: Management Report, Balance Sheet, and Statement of Surplus or Losses for the year ended 12/31/20 21; 2.2) Apportionment and allocation of surpluses from the year ended; 2.3) Setting the value of the fees of the President, Vice-President of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors; of the attendance cards of the members of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board and the strategic committees. Observations: Classification of information: Internal Use a) As determined by Article 35 of the Cooperative's Bylaws, this Pre-General Assembly will be restricted exclusively to the aforementioned agenda, in attention to the legal and doctrinal principles of binding the call notice and the inalterability of the call notice; b) In deliberative votes, only valid votes will be considered, that is, “for” and “against”; c) The deliberations taken at the Pre-General Assembly bind their respective delegates to maintain the same decision at the General Assembly of Delegates, as provided for in Article 40 of the Rules for the Election of Delegates; d) If the effective Delegate and the alternate in the Pre-Assembly, both will be prevented from voting in the General Assembly of Delegates, as provided in Article 40 § 4 of the Rules for the Election of Delegates; e) The member must have updated their telephone number and email address at the cooperative, through the Sicredi application (APP), Internet Banking or by going to their branch; f) Instructions for participation and voting in the Digital Assembly Tool: Members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital using any device with internet access. Then, identify yourself with your CPF and register a password to access the Assembly. g) On the day and time of the Assembly, the member must access the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital again, enter their CPF, registered password and click on their cooperative's event. This way, he will be able to participate in discussions and votes on items on the agenda. h) Legal Entity associates s must register using the CPF of their legal representative. i) Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the assembly participation tool will be available to members on the website www.sic redi.com.br/coop/cearacentronorte and on the link www.sicredi.com .br/assembleiadigital . j) To members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of the meeting, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in the form of the previous paragraph, the right to express a written statement will be guaranteed, directed to the board of directors, via chat, thus safeguarding your full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. k) Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, and, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool, written voting via chat. l) The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43 -A, of Law 5,764/71 and I N DRE I nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. Fortaleza, February 13, 202 2. Glauco Kleming Florêncio da Cunha Chairman of the Board of Directors