Page 1 Information classification: Internal use SOCIAL BYLAWS SOCIAL BYLAWS OF SICREDI CEARÁ – CREDIT COOPERATIVE OF THE STATE OF CEARÁ. CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Duration Period Art. 1 SICREDI CEARÁ – CREDIT COOPERATIVE OF THE STATE OF CEARÁ , and acronym SICREDI CEARÁ , established at the general meeting of February 17, 1993 , originally called Cooperative, it is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - Headquarters, administration and legal venue in the city of Fortaleza, on Avenida Dom Luís , no. 300 - Loja 166, Aldeota, CEP 60 .160-196, in the State of Ceará II - Area of ​​action limited to all municipalities in the State of Ceará. III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration with Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi – System of Cooperative Credit, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Guarantor Fund (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi Nordeste on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when it falls within the established operational limits. ed by current legislation. § 3 Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I- the majority of its members, to become independent; Page 2 Classification of information: Internal Use II - of the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. §4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, participation and manifestation of the respective Center in all stages of the procedure. §5° The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - Systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of Grow and Belong programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - The limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. §6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to being subject to other sanctions provided for by law. §7º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary and through the signing of an agreement, aimed at assisting it to remedy irregularities or in the event of a risk to the solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. §8º Affiliation to the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - The obligations for participation in the Credit Compensation Service Checks and Other Papers; II - Obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the members of the Cooperative or all other affiliates. §9º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in §6º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. §10° The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. §11º The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to compliance with legislation and regulations in force and also Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even forward promptly to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports must be verified. Page 3 Classification of information: Internal Use §12º The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus the financial contributions allocated to the Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. §13º Central Sicredi N ordeste, as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. §14 The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - Carrying out operations specific to credit cooperatives, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in under current regulations, access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational programs, research, teaching and institutional development, among others, which aim to practice cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. § 1. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social discrimination will be strictly observed. §2 The cooperative may, at its discretion, make all products and services available to non-members financial and non-financial services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, including payment services in the form of acquirer and payment transaction initiator. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The C ooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, in compliance with internal regulations and legislation. current. Page 4 Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER III DOS MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established herein and are : I - Individuals who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; II - Legal entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; § 1 The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2 To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2 of the art. 12, accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, in addition to of the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2 of art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - Anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - Anyone who has lost employment with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - Anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - Anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - Anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - Anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - Anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a document public or private, or omit registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - Anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - Anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - Anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. Page 5 Information classification: Internal Use Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - Participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to statutory and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or regulatory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the core assembly, upon request by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general meeting; VI - Have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information about the financial statements of the financial year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - Comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - Operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; Page 6 Classification of information: Internal Use IV - Preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - Do not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - Maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - maintain updated registration information. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses verified in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. § 1 The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required to do so, except in the cases set out in §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The associates are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, willful or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative will be liable. § 4° The obligations of the deceased member, contracted with the Cooperative and those arising from his responsibility as an associate, vis-à-vis third parties, they pass to the heirs, up to the limit of the strength of the inheritance and the subscribed shares. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Page 7 Classification of information: Internal Use Elimination Art. 10 The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - If the member fails to promptly comply with obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - Practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as an administrative advisor, inspector or director. § 1º They may be eliminated, also, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming active Cooper. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in their opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or in the At the first meeting that follows, it will assess the reasons presented and inform the member of its decision, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating it from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may file an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of the elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. Article as appropriate, preventively from its functions, while the investigation continues, making it aware of the verifications carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days it can present its reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Page 8 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs due to: I - Dissolution of the legal entity; II - Death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - Failure to comply with the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. §1 Change of address after joining will not be considered as loss of statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares - subscribed parts, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 10,000.00 (ten thousand reais), which must be paid in in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 10 (ten) shares. § 3 º The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. . § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of the credit limit of each member, it may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new shares - capital shares, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total shares. § 6 The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 7º The shares of the capital are unseizable. Page 9 Classification of information: Internal Use §8 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, surpluses are added or losses from the corresponding fiscal year are deducted, in compliance with the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. §9º The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting on the same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, weighted, to this end, the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. §10º The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Council of Administration of the Cooperative, respecting the systemic indication. §11º The Share Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 9º §10º of this article takes place, provided that: I - The partial result of the year in which the dismissal occurs presents surpluses; II - There are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the financial conditions and assets of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its framework in all aspects asset limits required by current legislation. §12 In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit resulting from the value of their share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. §13º If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the The responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he/she left the membership. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. §14º The shares - parts of the capital are part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the obligations of the Cooperative. associated with third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. §15º If the member does not punctually fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective quotas - shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the quotas - shares of capital, maintaining their membership status with the minimum membership fees established in § 2 of this article. §16º Unclaimed credits by members, eliminated, dismissed or excluded, will receive treatment provided for in Law no. 2,313/54. Page 10 Classification of information: Internal Use §17º The member may, under the terms of this article, make occasional redemptions of capital shares, upon request addressed to and approved by the Board of Directors, as long as they maintain a minimum number of 5,000 (five thousand) shares -parts of the capital. §18º The redeemed amount will be released 50% (fifty percent) of a single once and the remainder, at least, in 12 (twelve) equal, monthly and successive installments, the first starting in the month following the date of initial release, remaining the minimum capital to be redeemed in situations of dismissal, elimination or exclusion , in accordance with statutory provisions. I) The Member who formalizes in writing the desire to redeem only 50% (fifty percent) of the excess value of the paid-in capital and waives redemptions in 12 (twelve) equal installments, You may request the redemption of the remaining installments, subject to a periodicity of 12 months, as established in this paragraph. §19º When granting the request for possible redemption of quotas, the Board of Directors must observe, among others, the following criteria: I) compliance with the minimum limits established by the regulations in force for the capital and reference assets of the Cooperative; II) maintenance of the stability inherent to the fixed capital nature of the Cooperative. §20º If it is impossible to comply with the redemption request for the reasons listed in subparagraphs “I” and “II” of paragraph 19 of this article, the member will obey the chronological order of the request, with the preference of redemption, when it falls within the respective framework. . §21º The heirs of the deceased partners will be entitled to the values ​​of the shares - shares of the capital and other credits existing in their name, determined at the end of the year partnership in which the death occurred, being subrogated in the right to receive what the deceased member had. §22º The compensation defined by Articles 368 to 380 of the Brazilian Civil Code will be carried out, between the existing balance in the capital account and the debt balance(s) arising from the contract(s). loan(s) or financing(s) under the responsibility of the Member and/or their Joint Debtor(s), provided that the following conditions are met: I. A( s) operation(s) are provisioned at risk level H or recorded at loss, in accordance with the rules of the Central Bank of Brazil – BACEN or criteria established by the Board of Directors; II. When compensating, the minimum equivalent values ​​mentioned in art.1 2 of this Statute will be preserved. § 23° The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surpluses to be paid not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the fund reserve of the cooperative after 5 (five) years of termination. CHAPTER V Page 11 Classification of information: Internal Use OF THE GENERAL MEETING: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13 The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and of these Bylaws, will take any and all decisions of interest to the Company, and the deliberations are binding all, even if absent or discordant. § 1 The matters on the agenda of the ordinary general assembly must be previously considered in core assemblies, and will be coordinated by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if these are not possible, by whoever indicates that. § 2 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14 General meetings will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice that must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of members in full enjoyment of their social rights, in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of a remote assembly, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its publication, for quorum purposes installation; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. Page 12 Classification of information: Internal Use § 3 General meetings may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, provided that this is expressly stated in the notice. §4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for participation of delegates. Art. 15 The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16 At General Assemblies, the associates, grouped by nuclei, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and its own regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the legate may not simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by the members in their respective groups, the delegate's vote at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17 For this purpose of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies for delegates among the nuclei will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 51 (fifty-one) nuclei, observing its own regulations; II – the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18 The election of Delegates will take place at the Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elective positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in the regulations. Page 13 Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 The election will be carried out, by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19 If it is not possible to hold a general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call will be reiterated to a new date, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20 General assemblies will be chaired by the President of the Board of Directors, or by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member administration. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite an associate to assist in the work. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the Board. § 3 The President of the assembly will choose, from among the members, an “Ad hoc” secretary to assist in drafting the decisions to be included in the minutes of the Assembly. Art. 21 The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his deputy or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22 Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote except for decisions made in contrary to the assembly itself, they will be taken by a simple majority, except for matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for whose validity the votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates present are required. § 1 Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the meeting and the secretary of the meeting. § 2 The deliberations of the general assemblies may only deal with the subjects of the Call Notice. Art. 23 The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum , both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the aforementioned call notice in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not make it possible to comply with the legal deadline required for that publication. Page 14 Classification of information: Internal Use SECTION I ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Art. 24 The ordinary general meeting must be held once a year, within the legal deadline, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the bodies administration, accompanied by the opinions of the Fiscal Council and independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of the components of the councils of administration and tax; IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of fees, attendance cards and bonuses for members of the Councils and Committees. V - approval of the remuneration policy for Board members, at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. SECTION II EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Art. 25 The extraordinary general meeting will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It's yours exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); Page 15 Classification of information: Internal Use V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26 The process election will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission specifically constituted for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same collegiate. CHAPTER VII BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD OF BOARDS SECTION I BOARD OF DIRECTORS Art. 27 The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegial deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 12 (twelve) advisors, including a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of the Sicredi, or even, with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold participation in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities members of Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or at another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) exercises; VII - be a resident of the country; Page 16 Classification of information: Internal Use VIII - not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime of bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, faith public, property or the National Financial System, or sentenced to a sentence that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; IX - not being declared disqualified or suspended from holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies in institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil or in supplementary pension entities, insurance companies, capitalization companies, publicly-held companies or entities subject to the supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission Furniture; X - not be declared bankrupt or insolvent; XI - not have, through intent or fault, committed an irregularity that caused any damage wear and tear on Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; XII - have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two financial years (being an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) nucleus assemblies in the last 3 (three) financial years; XIII - have participated, in the immediately previous year, or participated in courses and other training and retraining events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or job function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at directors during the period of their mandate, up to 1 (one) year after taking office; XIV - have time available to fully comply with statutory and legal responsibilities, and accumulation with another position or function (elective or not) that requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative is prohibited; XV - have certification from the Crescer Program; XVI - preferably be performing or have performed, as a member or substitute, the role of Center Coordinator of the Belonging Program at the Cooperative where he/she is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XIV – have an undergraduate or postgraduate degree in the areas of administration, law, actuarial science, accounting, economics, cooperative management and financial management; XV - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVI – do not negatively expose, or attempt against, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities forming part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any trademarks owned by entities forming part of Sicredi; XVII - not having suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. §1 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will board members and directors who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during their term of office or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. Page 17 Classification of information: Internal Use §2° The mandate will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, it must be considered the whole number immediately superior, and those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. §3° The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. §4 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice -President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. §5 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position. position(s), whether or not confirming the position(s) appointed(s), and the elected one(s) will serve the remaining time of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. If the number of Council members is reduced to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. §6 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - no attendance, without prior justification, at 2 (two) consecutive meetings or at 4 (four) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. §7 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. §8 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood as: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councilman, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; Page 18 Classification of information: Internal Use II - Member of a party executive – people who, affiliated with a given party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, appointment or delegation (State Ministers, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28 The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, on an ordinary monthly basis, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President, the majority of the Board itself, or, even, by request from the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the vote reserved for the President tiebreaker; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also promptly inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board. §1 Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. §2 No advisor may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of interest, or that concern your relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including by electronic means. Art. 29 In addition to other duties arising from the legislation and these Statutes, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - to establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of the systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of the regulations systemic s; Page 19 Classification of information: Internal Use VII - decide on the payment of annual remuneration on capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the Company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and determine the application of applicable penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting the purposes complementary or accessory, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV - authorize the alteration of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, closure, transfer or change of address of the other dependencies or branches of the cooperative, within or outside the headquarters, in the terms current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and Sicredi’s internal regulations; XVI - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing social capital by the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable; XXI - appoint and dismiss members of the Strategic Committees in accordance with the internal regulations. Single paragraph. In the event that the The Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, and will define for each member, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30 The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the activities of the Cooperative, including compliance with applicable rules, coordinating the action by the Executive Board; Page 20 Classification of information: Internal Use II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the formation of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, to the Board of Directors for consideration, monitoring their implementation; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, in its name and to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the facilities of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of the services provided to the associates; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31 The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in the event of his leave, absence, suspension or impediment, including at general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. SECTION II BOARD OF BOARDS Section II Page 21 Classification of information: Internal Use Board of Directors Art. 32 The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, to whom is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the company, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, being an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and a maximum of 9 (nine) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director, a Business Director and up to 6 (six) Regional Directors. §1 The Officers will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Officers, and will perform the functions provided for in this Statute. §2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. §3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Administrative Council. §4 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. §5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - By 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - By 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; §6 Exceptionally, the Representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, local authorities and mixed capital companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the lack of plurality of Directors and non-vacancy supplied. Art. 33 To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - Meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VII and XV to XVIII, as well as § 1; II - Obey the provisions of §§8 and 9 of art. 27; Page 22 Classification of information: Internal Use III - have an undergraduate or postgraduate degree in the areas of administration, law, actuary, accounting, economics, cooperative management and financial management ; IV - Proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V - Complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34 The Board of Directors is responsible, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - Operationally manage the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi’s corporate guidelines and strategies; II - Contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, observing the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - Sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the implementation and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, in compliance with the provisions of these Statutes; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and respond for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissing employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; Page 23 Classification of information: Internal Use XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities typical of the Cooperative's ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members; XV - do not have to have the study, approval, control or settlement of business or loan that eventually intend or hire with the cooperative and, of those who, directly or indirectly, are interested in companies in which they have control or participation greater than 5% of the Share Capital, or in whose management they participate or have participated up to 02 (two) years immediately prior to their investiture in the position. Art. 35 The members of the Board of Directors have the following duties: I - The Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Council of Administration; e) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations; i) implement and manage the relationship policy with the cooperative’s members and suppliers. II - The Operations Director: a) respond for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and performance indicators Cooperative performance; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. Page 24 Classification of information: Internal Use III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of planning tactical for product and service portfolios based on systemic strategic planning guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) be responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) respond for the execution of the Cooperative expansion plans in line with the deliberations of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Board of Directors are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in this Statute. Social. § 2 The Board of Directors is not a collegial body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 Deliberations and other occurrences Substantial meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. IV - The Regional Director: a) be the representative and responsible for monitoring the economic and financial development of the Service Units in the micro-region of the cooperative eventually incorporated in which they are domiciled; b) be responsible for implementing the development projects of the Service Units installed in the cooperative microregion incorporated in who is domiciled; c) supervise the operational management of local and systemic policies defined for the cooperative, especially those aimed at Service Units, installed in the micro-region of the incorporated cooperative, in which it is domiciled; d) other duties defined by the Board of Directors. Art. 3 6º In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 5, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Management will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Page 25 Classification of information: Internal Use Sole paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors will appoint an executive manager interim period to exercise responsibilities for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37 The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, determine loss to the Company, will be liable directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the as set out in the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38 The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all associated individuals, elected by the general assembly, observing Regarding the conditions and requirements for the candidacy and exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVIII, of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires slate(s) ) complete, independent and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in §2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2 The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is the majority shareholder or administrator, considering the provision of services or the supply of products which, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months. § 3 The term of office will be 02 (two) years. §4° The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. §5 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets monthly on an ordinary basis and on an extraordinary basis arily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Page 26 Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for calling meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and by request from the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40 In case of temporary absence, or in case of vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to be duly completed, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27th, § 5th, of this Statute, it is up to the Board itself to assess the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty and eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of the position becoming vacant. Art. 41º Among other duties arising from the legislation, this Statute and systemic regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising assiduous supervision over the assets, operations with associates, services and the acts of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, resource availability, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents under custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the administration accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the standards on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of its functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and the independent auditors, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all the individual cooperatives and their central members of Sicredi; Page 27 Classification of information: Internal Use VII - report to the Board of Directors the conclusions of its work, alerting about irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by decision of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the administration of the Cooperative, whose practice results from its proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the liability of counselors and directors for the losses caused in the form of the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 43º. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 50% (fifty percent), at the most minimum, for the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; II - 5% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families and employees of the Cooperative and the community located in its area of action ; III - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1st of this article. § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided Page 28 Classification information: Internal Use in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new quotas - shares of capital of the associates or destined in addition to the reserve fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining the mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. § 3 In addition to the funds provided for in this article, the General Assembly may create other funds and provisions, with resources necessarily intended for specific purposes, with a temporary nature, establishing the method of formation and liquidation. Art. 45 The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46 The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. Art. 47 The Reserve Fund is intended to cover eventual and unforeseen losses that the Cooperative may suffer and support its development. Sole paragraph - They revert to the Reserve Fund, in addition to the deduction referred to in subparagraph “a”, of the first paragraph, of article 59: a) non-operational income; b) before determining the destinations donations without specific destination are mandatory and at the discretion of the Board of Directors; c) loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Art. 48th Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund - FATES is intended to provide assistance to members, their legal dependents and employees of the Cooperative, according to approved programs by the General Assembly. § 1 - Aid and donations, without special allocation, as well as income derived from operations with non-members revert to FATES. § 2 - The services to be provided by FATES may be performed through an agreement. § 3 - FATES will be governed subsidiarily by the Internal Regulations. Art. 49 SICREDI CEARÁ undertakes to participate and remain in the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCOOP) in the form, terms and conditions established in the Fund's own regulations. Page 29 Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER associates, at the very least, are not willing to ensure its continuity; II - By changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less of 20 (twenty), or its minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - For the cancellation of authorization to operate; V - For the interruption of its normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 51 The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER agreement to carry out ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with current legislation. CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 5 3º The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 5 4º Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed received within 5 (five) days, counted from its sending. Art. 5 5º The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposing the judicial measure. Art. 5 6. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when appropriate, the social bodies. Page 30 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 5 7° The current members of the Fiscal Council will have their mandates preserved until the Ordinary General Assembly of 2024, applying the provisions changed in this body from the Ordinary General Assembly to be held in 2024. WE DECLARE FOR DUE PURPOSES THAT THESE BYLAWS OF INCORPORATION IS A FAITHFUL AND AUTHENTIC COPY OF WHAT IS DRAWN UP IN THE BOOK OF MINUTES OF GENERAL MEETINGS OF SICREDI CEARÁ – COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT DO ESTADO DO CEARÁ. Fortaleza, April 25, 2023.