Classification of information: Internal Use SICREDI CEAR Á - COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT OF THE STATE OF CEARÁ RECTIFICATION OF THE CALL OF THE EXTRAORDINARY AND ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Modality: Digital The President of the Board of Directors of SICREDI CEARA - COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT OF THE STATE OF CEARÁ, with headquarters at Av. Dom Luís, n° 300, Sala 166 - Meireles, Fortaleza - CE, CEP: 60.160 -196, registered with the CNPJ under nº 72.257.793/0001 - 30, in the use of the powers conferred on it by the Statute of the Cooperative, summons its DELEGATES, able to vote, which on this date totals 51 (fifty-one) delegates, in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet at an EXTRA ORDINARY AND ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on digitally, on April 25, 202 3 (Tuesday), at Avenida Beira Mar, 2380, Meireles - Fortaleza -CE, CEP: 60.165 -120, at 5:30 pm, with the presence of 2/3 ( two-thirds) of the delegates, in the first call; at 18:30 hours, with the presence of half plus one of the delegates, on second call; at 7:30 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates, in the third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all delegates, simultaneously, using the Digital Assembly Tool accessed through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: The General Assembly Extraordinary meeting will be held at digital modality for all delegates, to deliberate on the following subjects, which make up the agenda: 1. Broad reform of the Bylaws of SICREDI CEARA - COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT OF THE STATE OF CEARÁ adapting to the standard model of the Sicredi System and Complementary Law 196 Approval and Consolidation of the Bylaws. The Ordinary General Assembly will be held digitally for all delegates, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda day: 1. Accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. 2. Allocation of surpluses, deducting the portions for statutory funds; 3. Assessment and Deliberation on the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors (Complementary Law 196/2022; § 7, art. 5 º. 4. Setting the value of fees and attendance cards for members of the Councils, Strategic Committees and Board of Directors. 5. Ratification of the Senior Management Position Succession Policy (Resolution 4878/2020); Observations: a) As determined by § 2 of Article 22 of the Cooperative's Bylaws, the deliberations of this Extraordinary General Assembly and Ordinary General Assembly may only deal with the matters of this Call Notice; b) In voting deliberative, only valid votes will be considered, that is, “for” and “against”; c) The deliberations taken at the Core Assembly bind their respective delegates to maintain the same decision at the Extraordinary General Assembly and Ordinary General Assembly, as provided for in § 4 of Article 16 of the Cooperative's Bylaws; d) The delegate must have updated their telephone number and email address at the cooperative, through the Sicredi application (APP), Internet Banking or going to your branch. e) Instructions for participating in voting in the Digital Assembly Tool: Delegates must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital using any device with internet access. Then, identify yourself with your CPF and register a password or use the access password already registered at the Core Assembly to have access to voting at the Delegates Assembly. f) Documents relating to the order of day and more detailed information about registration and use of the voting participation tool for the Extraordinary General Assembly and Ordinary General Assembly will be available to delegates on the website www.sicrediceara.com.br and on the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital . g) Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Extraordinary General Assembly and Ordinary General Assembly, being admitted, exceptionally, only in the in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool, written voting via chat. h) This notice replaces and annuls the previous notice published on April 5, 2023. Fortaleza, April 14, 202 3. Glauco Kleming Florêncio da Cunha Chairman of the Board of Directors