Annual report Sicredi Ceará 2021Annual report Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte 20212 Annual report 2021 MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP ................................... .......................... 5 OUR COOPERATIVE .................. .................................................... ....... 6 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2021 ....................................... ....................................... 8 RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM ....... ............................. 13 »Strengthen our business model governance ..................................... 14 »Spreading cooperativism and sustainability .... .................... 15 »Promoting inclusion and diversity ................................... .................... 16 » RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS ......................... ...................................... 19 »Offer financial and non-financial solutions with impact positive economic, social and environmental financial education .................................................... 21 »Ensuring integrated risk management ........................................ 22 »Promoting eco-efficient management .............................................. ............. 23 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT .......................... ........................... 25 »Fostering the local economy ................ .............................................. 26 »Development of collaborators .............................................. 28 »Contribute to the development of communities............ 29 SERVICE NETWORK ........................... ........................................... 31 Summary4 ​​Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte Message from leadership In 2021, Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte had to overcome numerous economic, social, corporate, health, environmental and climate challenges. Worked hard on relationships with its associates and modern sustainability principles cooperative, reaching the end of the 2021 financial year with R$1 billion in assets, a credit portfolio of R$455.8 million, 17 service points and a gross operating result of R$26 million that will allow it to be taken to the ordinary general meeting (AGO) almost R$10 million to distribute to members. With the aim of increasingly promoting the active participation of our members in the management of the cooperative, we are making Sicredi's Management Report – Base Year 2021 – available Ceará Central North. This publication provides a light, modern and structured account of the work of the cooperative's current technical and managerial staff, fulfilling the legal and statutory duty of reporting on the main actions carried out in the previous year. The work was structured based on Sicredi's three strategic sustainability drivers: Relationships and Cooperativism, Responsible Solutions and Local Development. Divided into 5 parts, the first chapter addresses the profile economic-financial performance of the Sicredi system and Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte in 2021 through a consolidated set of economic performance indicators. The second chapter discusses actions that were highlighted in 2021 in the media and society, including the election of the Board of Directors and appointment of the Executive Board for the next four years; and the creation and implementation of an economic and geographic expansion plan for the cooperative. Delving deeper into the Relationship and Cooperativism, Glauco Kleming Chairman of the Board of Directors, we highlight the strengthening of the governance system, actions to spread cooperativism, sustainability, inclusion and diversity. In Responsible Solutions, we present what we did to offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact. And last but not least, in the Local Development guide we discuss promoting the local economy understanding that through our virtuous financial cycle we make it possible to generate income, increase purchasing power and positively impact the locations where we operate. Good reading. May you feel increasingly closer to your cooperative financial institution. Together we are stronger. Sicredi System in numbers5 Introduction We are Sicredi We are the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil and have been operating for 119 years, bringing our cooperative essence to all the regions of the country, seeking to meet the needs of our members and contribute to the construction of a more prosperous society. Currently, we have more than 5.5 million members distributed across all regions of the country. Our business consists of raising resources from members and lending them to members in the same regions, ensuring the resources remain in place and encouraging sustainable development. In total, we are more than 100 cooperatives that operate autonomously and They are organized into a national system, which guarantees security and solidity to members. We offer more than 300 financial products and services in a simple and accessible way for you, your company and your agribusiness. But what makes us different is that when you join, you acquire a small share of your cooperative, becoming the owner of Sicredi, having a voice over business decisions and participating in the results. We believe that doing things together makes a difference and that the strength of collective is capable of transforming our world. As a cooperative financial institution, we practice this maxim every day, when we come together for mutual good. We understand that the best choices are those that bring results for everyone. Result of R$ 1 billion 5.5 million members More than 2.1 thousand agencies More than 33 thousand employees Present in more than 1,400 municipalities More than 300 solutions financial companies R$ 196.5 billion in assets R$ 24.7 billion in net equity R$ 130 billion in total deposits R$ 129.9 billion in credit portfolio balance6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte Our cooperative Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte We are one of more than 100 cooperatives that are part of Sicredi and are part of a national system in which associates who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network that supports the sustainable prosperity of communities with responsible financial solutions. We have been operating in Ceará for 29 years, more of 23 thousand members and our operations cover more than 140 municipalities in the state. Our commitment is to the financial health of our associates, aiming to positively impact the community and promote financial education through closer and more human service. In 2021, Sicredi Ceará saw a 15% growth in the number of associates, opened branches, received new leadership for corporate governance and launched a robust expansion plan that will double our operations until 2025. We have sustainable and continuous development that allows us to support our members with financial and non-financial solutions at 360 degrees, developing cooperativism in our regions and strengthening the local economy, supporting the growth of communities and members. Net result of R $20.9 million More than 23 thousand associates 17 branches and advanced service points More than 200 employees in 10 municipalities More than 300 financial solutions R$ 1 billion in assets R$ 149 million in equity R$ 782.3 million in total deposits R$ 455.8 million in balance in credit portfolioOur cooperative in numbers7 Introduction REGIONAL OPERATION 1,198 members present at the 2021 assemblies Coverage in more than 140 municipalities, with 17 service units and business officesAMRR PA TO GODF MG ES RJSPMS PR SC RSBAPICE RN PB PE AL SEMAAP AC RO MT CE Legend Service units Business office8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte Highlights in 2021 Inauguration of the Board of DirectorsCorporate governance This year, the new Board of Directors took office, democratically elected by the members during the assemblies. In any business, longevity and sustainability are only achieved through strong, well-structured and diverse governance. At Sicredi Ceará, all advisors are encouraged to develop professionally in order to keep the administration up to date with the market trends and trained in cooperativism. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to appoint the cooperative's Board of Directors and this year our Board of Directors also took office, assuming the commitment to be responsible for the management of the cooperative's areas and employees and for the executive management of the business, deliberating strategies focused on Sicredi's growth Ceará.BOARD OF DIRECTORS Glauco Kleming Florêncio da Cunha President José Hegel Nóbrega de Almeida Vice- presidentAdvisors: Cesar Augusto Mesquita Juaçaba Eveline Campos Monteiro de Castro Francisco Alberto de Oliveira Junior Jaime Alencar Benevides Filho João Candido de Souza Borges Joel Isidoro Costa Karine Andreisa Paiva Sobral Ribeiro Marta Bezerra Soares Costa Selene Sales Nogueira Caracas de Souza Walmir Leite Pontes Board Members: Cesar Juaçaba, Eveline Campos, Francisco Alberto, Jaime Alencar, João Borges, Joel Isidoro, Karine Sobral, Marta Bezerra, Selene Caracas and Walmir Pontes (from left to right). Dr. Glauco Kleming (President) and Dr. Hegel Nóbrega (Vice President). 9 Introduction The assembly period is the most important moment of a cooperative and our efforts are focused on offering the best conditions for our members to exercise their role as owners and be able to give their opinion and vote, actively deciding the direction of the cooperative. With the coronavirus pandemic, in 2021 we reinvented ourselves to preserve cooperative principles and strengthen our business model through meetings developed 100% digitally, offering security, practicality and convenience to our members and core coordinators. Montese Agency, opened in December 2021. Digital AssembliesExpansion Plan R$4.1 million in interest credited to Social Capital Social Capital is a fundamental instrument to boost our social activities. It strengthens the assets of the cooperative and its members, and thus, increasingly more, we make a difference in our region.EXECUTIVE AND REGIONAL BOARD Marcos AragãoExecutive Director Walter Frota Director of Operations Marcelo Farias Business Director Lindenor Maia Regional Director Vale do Jaguaribe Raimundo Nonato Regional Director Sertão dos Inhamuns Luiz Aquino Regional Director North RegionWe continue to drive the development of communities where we operate with an expansion plan that will culminate in 13 new operations in the coming years, doubling our production units service until 2025. The objective is to expand the Sicredi System's operations in the Northeast region, providing consultative service and contributing to local socioeconomic development, through the dissemination of the culture of cooperativism. The first Sicredi Foundation space outside the South region was opened in February 2021. Sicredi Foundation Space The Sicredi Foundation aims to keep the essence of cooperativism alive, through programs and initiatives that highlight our culture in our day-to-day business. The inauguration of the space in Ceará makes our purpose even more tangible and brings our communities closer to cooperativism.10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte Discover some of the achievements that Sicredi had in 2021, in various national awards and recognitions. Época 360º Época Negócios 360º, a guide prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral, the cooperative financial institution ranked 8th in the sectoral ranking of Banks, placement influenced by the highlight in 2nd place in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. Value 1000 The institution ranked 9th in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. Furthermore, Sicredi also stood out in 11 categories of the guide, which Awards and recognition consider the combined balance of the System. Among the highlights, it ranked 4th most Profitable on Equity and 7th in Credit Operations, Total Deposits. Prepared by the newspaper Valor Econômico and Serasa Experian, based on data from the 2020 accounting year, Valor 1000 relies on the approval work of the School of Business Administration of Fundação Getúlio Vargas (Eaesp/FGV). The publication provides complete information about the largest companies in the Brazil, with comparable rankings, consolidated financial statements, gross revenue and other strategic items taken from the balance sheets or reported by companies or institutions. Forbes In 2021, Sicredi ranked seventh in the country in the World’s Best Banks 2021 ranking prepared by Forbes in partnership with the statistics company Statista. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. The survey, of a popular nature, took into account the opinions of 43 thousand respondents, from 28 different countries.11 Introduction Theo, artificial intelligence from Sicredi.Guia Valor Fundos Investimento With strategies that value long-term assets, profitability well above their benchmarks and active management, funds from different risk and volatility categories, Sicredi have managed to remain among the top 20 since 2019 as assessed by Valor Econômico's Valor Investment Fund Guide. In the Active Fixed Income category we stand out with our Sicredi Institutional Fund FI REF IRF M from our own resource manager, Sicredi Asset, which has more than R$56 billion under management and a strong seal from Fitch Ratings. In the Shares category, our highlight is the Schroders Sicredi Ibovespa FIA Fund, managed by our partner Schroder Investment Management, which has more than 200 years of history in the financial market and globally manages more than USD 785.1 billion Banking Transformation 2021 Valuing initiatives from financial institutions , contributing to the improvement of the sector, the winning case was the 'Implementation of Whatsapp Enterprise + Theo', by Sicredi, which involves the use of artificial intelligence to provide more agility and efficiency to service, through the instant messaging app. The initiative competed with 230 other cases, being the best evaluated by a committee made up of experts in innovation and the banking sector. For Sicredi's Relationship Superintendent, Alceu Meinen, the recognition rewards the entire journey of digital transformation that the institution has undertaken over the last few years, which has generated an organizational environment more prone to innovation. The cooperative model is the great differentiator of our business, with transparent, participatory and democratic management. With a partnership relationship, we experience our culture, which values ​​doing and growing together. It is a support network that keeps cooperativism alive and generates good business. Relationships and cooperativism01Chapter14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte Members are linked to cooperatives through capital contributions and have the right to vote on cooperative decisions through assemblies. Core Coordinators are the representatives elected by members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. The CAD deliberates on strategic topics, opportunities, policies and other issues. guides. The Supervisory Board monitors compliance with the administration's legal and statutory duties. The Executive and Regional Board is responsible for managing the cooperative's areas and employees and for the executive management of the business, deliberating strategies focused on the cooperative's growth. Strengthening our governance model Assemblies are the maximum moment of participation, in which members take the lead and participate in decisions that affect business directions. In them, the main themes are debated and deliberated, representatives are elected, accountability is approved and the distribution of results is decided, among other issues. Decisions are taken by their core coordinators (delegates) to the Ordinary General Assembly (AGO). With the pandemic caused by the new coronavirus, we had to reinvent ourselves to guarantee the democratic process of the Assemblies, respecting the guidance on social isolation and preserving the health of our associates and employees. Through the Pertencer Program, we intensified the use of technologies and digital channels, allowing members to discuss and deliberate remotely, without giving up our participatory decision-making processes. For the first time, we held 100% Digital Assemblies, using security tools that attest to the veracity of the decisions made. Technology crossed borders and enabled the historic presence of 1,198 members able to vote on the direction of the cooperative. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Associates (elect) Core Coordinators (elect)(select) 1 2 3 4Cooperative Board of DirectorsCooperative Supervisory Board 15 Relationships and Cooperatives * Number of associates able to vote on the agenda of the Assembly.Participation of Associates To encourage participation of members in the Assemblies and decision-making processes of Sicredi Ceará, we began the implementation of the Pertencer Program, which aims to engage members, establish the rules of participation and guide our participatory management model. Through the belong program, we have increasingly brought our Core Coordinators closer to governance, ensuring full fulfillment of their elective functions. In 2021, 4 Core meetings were held with the coordinators, Board of Directors and Board of Directors, where the cooperative's quarterly results and main executive decisions were discussed. We also used the opportunity to listen to our Center Coordinators and build governance based on democracy and diversity. 2020 2021 PARTICIPATION OF MEMBERS IN THE CORE ASSEMBLY* 284 2020 2021 PARTICIPATION IN THE ASSEMBLY OF DELEGATES 49 Spreading cooperativism and sustainability Our cooperative has developed a series of initiatives to spread cooperativism, both internally, among our employees, and externally, to members and society in general. This year, we held lives, lectures and donation campaigns for educational institutions and charities, in addition to supporting shelters for children, young people and the elderly in the process of family destitution. Through our initiatives, we encourage financial inclusion, eradicating poverty and promoting health and quality of life. Dr. Marcos Aragão, Executive Director, during the presentation of the results at the 2021 Assembly. Cooperative education The Crescer Program is our main cooperative education front, which offers training with the aim of expanding understanding about cooperative societies, their functioning, benefits and differences in relation to others38%321%1,198 6816 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte MANAGEMENT 2015/2019 MANAGEMENT 2019/ 2022CORE COORDINATORS 18 32 MANAGEMENT 2017/2021MANAGEMENT 2021/2025MANAGEMENT ADVISORS 20% 40%Sustainability Committee The objective of the Cooperative's Sustainability Committee is to establish locally the support structure for the implementation of the Sustainability Policy and Systemic Sustainability Strategy, as one of the governance structures for the topic, advising the Board of Directors so that decision-making takes into account responsibilities, opportunities and economic and social challenges , environmental and climate issues that involve topics relevant to sustainability at Sicredi and for our stakeholders.financial institutions. We start to implementation of the program in September 2020, with our employees, and in 2021 we expanded it to associates. Leadership Development The Women's Committee aims to promote gender equity, empowerment and training of women so that they can increasingly assume new leading and leadership roles in the Cooperative and in the communities. It is through the Women's Committee that we increase the representation of women in the management of Cooperatives, working towards inclusion and diversity, promoting permanent social transformation. The Sicredi system, based on the analysis carried out with the public trained at Crescer in 2018, identified a correlation of a 103% increase in the contribution margin and a 63% increase in ISA (services per member indicator) for members who underwent Crescer training. 72% EMPLOYEES LEADERSHIP TRAINING ON SUSTAINABILITY 91% 83% Promote inclusion and diversity Registration of the Crescer com program associates of the agency Itapipoca/CE.17 Relationship and Cooperativism INITIATIVES DEVELOPED IN 2021 Mulheres Coop - Cooperativism & Transformative LeadershipFree online event made by women and for women about empowerment, leadership and cooperation. The event was broadcast to more than 170 people and was attended by Maria Flávia Bastos, PhD in Administration and Specialist in executive education. Pink October - Hair Donation CampaignIn reference to the awareness about Breast Cancer, the Women's Committee carried out the #DonateSelf-Esteem campaign, encouraging members, collaborators and the community to donate hair to produce wigs for people fighting cancer. In partnership with the MAMA Association - Beloved Women, Assisted Women, the campaign raised more than 700 donations. Vice-president, Dr. Hegel Nóbrega, and the associate and vice-coordinator of Comite Mulher, Lidia Maia, at Mulheres Coop. Hair donation during #DonateSelf-Esteem campaign, in reference to Pink October. More diverse and inclusive team We seek to build a diverse and inclusive environment, which values ​​and respects people as they are. This construction aims not only to make our spaces emotionally safe for the employees who make up the institution's current staff, but also to show future talents that we are open to different people, ideas and ways. Currently, in our workforce we have 4 people with disabilities (PWD), but we know we can do even better. That is why, as one of the Sustainability Committee's initiatives, our service units are undergoing analyzes and studies to expand the space adapted for people with disabilities. In addition, all of our vacancies are also available for PWDs. Regarding gender diversity, around 56% of our employees are women. Furthermore, in our cooperative, women continually rise professionally leading teams, agencies and projects. Female leaders during the Managers' Meeting held in 2021. MEN WOMEN GENDER DIVERSITY 88 115 Responsible solutions02 Chapter In line with our sustainable principles and commitments, our products and services support the prosperity of the associate, who is the owner of the business. At the same time, in our operations, we seek to mitigate negative socio-environmental impacts and strengthen positive.20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte Through the offering of our products and services, we support the prosperity of our members, in addition to collaborating with the sustainable development of communities and society as a whole. To further increase our positive impact, we seek to develop increasingly sustainable financial solutions, with attractive rates and capable of meeting the needs of our members. Throughout 2021, we offer a wide portfolio of products and services that improved the lives and businesses of our members. PILLARS OF THE GREEN ECONOMY Low carbon emissions Efficiency in the use of resources Social inclusion Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Our incentive to clean energy, through credit granted for financing Solar Energy, support for small businesses and our measures of security for risk management, strengthen our cooperative purpose and establish us as a sustainable and socially responsible cooperative financial institution. In 2021, we granted more than R$25 millionGreen Economy Aware of our ability to support sustainable development through the offering of our financial solutions, we seek to identify opportunities for creating and improving products with an eye on sustainability. We have lines of credit aligned with the so-called green economy, which result in improving human well-being and social equality while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. Credit Insurance Cards Consortium FinancingInvestments Savings Billing Systems Card Machine Other green credit Strategic online meeting with hospital managers and medical associates.21 Responsible Solutions Associates are the owners of the business. With a close relationship, whether through physical means or digital, we seek to know your objectives, understand your needs and offer the appropriate products for your current moment in life. To measure our evolution and develop new improvements in the relationship with associates, we carried out a series of measurements of their satisfaction through the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey. In Relational NPS, we measure the relationship experience that the associate has with our brand. Relationship with the Associate In 2021, the satisfaction index of the Sicredi Ceará had an average of 78.9%, a result 2.9 percentage points higher than the previous year. Opening of new branches In contrast to traditional financial institutions, Sicredi Ceará continues to open or restructure its branches with an even closer and more innovative business model. In addition to opening the Montese Agency, we also reopened two spaces, our Morada Nova and Crateús agencies. In the Inhamus Region, we restored a traditional building from the region in its original form. original architecture, presenting the city with the preservation of its history. WhatsApp Enterprise Our service via WhatsApp is complete and provides greater convenience for our members. Through Theo, Sicredi's artificial intelligence, our associates are able to carry out various processes safely and quickly. To make our virtual service even closer, we have a specialized team prepared to provide the necessary advice and meet all needs. demands of our members. We consider financial education to be an essential tool for bringing sustainable development to associates, their businesses and the communities where we are present. Through it, we encourage conscious and prosperous attitudes in money management, encourage entrepreneurship and support small businesses in their process of establishing themselves in the market. Even in a challenging scenario due to the coronavirus pandemic, our cooperative mobilized throughout the year to develop several financial education actions through the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis program. Financial education action for children in a shopping mall in Fortaleza/CE. Promote financial education New Crateús Agency, reopened in a historic building.22 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte The program is based on Economic Psychology and Behavioral Economics to help people to become aware of their relationship with the money, providing more information, knowledge and good practices to encourage the development of habits and attitudes that contribute to a sustainable financial life. The structure prioritizes four audiences: Individuals, Legal Entities (MEI), Adolescents and Children (09 to 14 years old). Through Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis, we strengthen our cooperative purpose and bring financial education to our communities. Leonardo Ferreira, manager of the Quixidá Agency, giving a talk financial education during ENEF Week. ENEF Week is an annual initiative organized by the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF) with the aim of promoting the National Financial Education Strategy. In it, several free educational actions take place to disseminate financial, security, social security and tax education and contribute to the strengthening of citizenship and autonomy in the country. Traditionally held in May, the 2021 edition took place between the 8th and November 14th due to the pandemic.National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week)25 actions carried out2,615 people impacted Leonardo Morais, manager of Agência Itapipoca, facilitating a financial education lecture for the MEI public in Iapajé/CE.2020 2021IMPACT OF THE WEEK ENEF 945 1,185 IndividualsLegal PersonPUBLIC IMPACTED IN 2021 837 232 Adolescents 9025% Ensure integrated Risk management Using the lines of defense model, our cooperative works to identify, control and mitigate factors that may compromise the sustainability of the business in the short, medium and long term, contributing to the maintenance of our relationship of solidity and trust.Financial Education Program23 Responsible Solutions Promote eco-efficient management We consider the search for An eco-efficient operation is an essential part of our sustainability strategy. Therefore, we seek to implement solutions in our agencies that align efficiency in the use of resources with environmental responsibility.In 2021, we participated in the Sicredi System Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory, covering emissions data representing all of our service units. Its objective is to quantify the impact of our operations in relation to climate change and provide input for developing strategies to reduce and compensate for this adverse impact. The Greenhouse Gas Emissions report for the year 2021 will be available in 2022 and will be used to neutralize emissions through the purchase of carbon credits. Socio-Environmental Risk ManagementGreenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Management ) of 2020, integrating the neutralization of 100% of GHG emissions from the Sicredi system from the purchase of carbon credits. The process occurred as a result of Central Norte/Northeast's support for the Buenos Aires Project, which generates carbon credits for the conservation of the Caatinga biome, with the aim of avoiding deforestation and minimizing socio-environmental impacts in the region of the municipality of Buenos Aires (PE). Integrated Risk ManagementBusiness areas Risk areas Internal Audit1 2 3 All our employees act as the first line of defense and participate in training to identify the most diverse types of risks. In the second line, we have the areas responsible for analyzing risks, compliance, structuring policies, standards, methods, training, tools and much more. The third line of defense is Internal Audit. Since June 2021, we have started using self-generation of photovoltaic solar energy in 14 of our 17 service units and business offices. The action is part of a path taken in search of self-sufficiency energy and sustainable service units. All of our credit and consortium contracts have a socio-environmental responsibility clause with provision for fines and early settlement of operations in the event of non-compliance with contractual items, which establish socio-environmental commitments. In our credit granting process, we apply self-declaratory questionnaires that act as a flag of possible problems and serve as an alert for further analysis. depth when necessary and support for decision-making on member credit operations. By being present in cities of all sizes, from small to large metropolises, we act as a driver of local development in Brazil, whether through our financial solutions, job creation or developed programs. Find out how our close and responsible actions positively impact communities.Local development03Chapter26 Report Annual 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte Conscientious members make planned and independent financial decisions. 1Associates look for financial solutions to meet their needs. 2 Associates prosper in their personal and business goals.VIRTUOUS FINANCIAL CYCLE 3Being a cooperative financial institution is what differentiates us and brings us closer to our mission. We are governed by the principles of cooperativism, which guide us in promoting the economic development of communities where we are present. By remaining aligned with our essence, the money raised in a location is reverted into credit granted to other members in the same location, creating a virtuous cycle that stimulates investment in the cooperative, the inclusion of a greater number of people in the financial system and the strengthening our associates’ businesses. Promote the local economy Additionally, all members of our cooperative, including president and vice-president, advisors, directors and employees are associates and know and experience the needs of our communities on a daily basis. As a result, the presence of our agencies supports local commerce, stimulates income generation and contributes to improving the quality of life of all inhabitants of the regions where we operate. In the context of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, this strengthening of the local economy has become even more important.27 Local Development The scenario economic and social crisis caused by the Covid-19 crisis highlighted the importance of cooperation and support for micro and small businesses to help communities continue to prosper in the midst of difficult times. At the same time that small businesses generate the majority of jobs and contribute significantly to the economy, they are also more affected by the crisis, as, as a rule, they have less capital to withstand long periods of loss of income. With this concern, and exercising our values ​​and principles, we continue to encourage the I Cooperate with the Local Economy movement, reaffirming cooperativism as a way out of the crisis. Through it, we bring together civil society, local entities, press vehicles and public authorities to strengthen small traders and invite people to consume locally, making the economy work. Cooperating with the Local Economy MUNICIPALITIES WITH MORE THAN 100 THOUSAND INHABITANTS SERVICE UNITS IN MUNICIPALITIES WITH LESS THAN 100 THOUSAND INHABITANTS 50% 50%MUNICIPALITIES WITH LESS THAN 100 THOUSAND INHABITANTSAt Sicredi, we define our positive impact as the transformations in economic, social and environmental terms that we bring about in the lives of people and the society in which we operate. We promote the local economy understanding that through our virtuous financial cycle we enable the generation of income, increase purchasing power and positively impact the locations where we operate, not only with financial products and services with the benefits of credit cooperatives, but also offering programs developed by Sicredi Ceará, such as training in financial education and social assistance actions. Through our Expansion Plan, which will culminate in 13 new operations in the coming years, we will reach new municipalities, strengthening the local economy and taking the cooperative essence even further. One of the sustainable growth strategies of cooperative is valuing value chains: we strengthen relationships with members with the aim of guaranteeing principality and triggering new partnerships through links and stakeholders related to the member. This strategy allows us to support our Legal Entity members 360º: we offer financial products and services to the company and its employees, suppliers, partners and customers. Expansion Plan and value chains Business meeting and supply chain value in Russas/CE. I COOPERATE WITH THE LOCAL ECONOMY28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Ceará Centro Norte We know that by investing in education and training, we strengthen local development both by improving our ability to meet local demands and by strengthening the human capital of the region. Therefore, we seek to develop local suppliers. We consider it important to share our sustainability commitments with our entire supply chain. On this topic, We seek to establish partnerships with regional and local suppliers, preferably members of the institution, encouraging cooperativism and sustainability. In 2021, as one of the Sustainability Committee's initiatives, we began a more cooperative dialogue with our suppliers, aiming to engage the value chain. Currently, all of our suppliers located in the interior of the state are members of the cooperative, while around 40% of suppliers in the capital have already joined the cooperative. became associates. Employee development Our employees are part of the communities where we operate and, at the same time, are responsible for the close and human relationships we establish with them. They are the ones who make the effort on a daily basis to get to know the lives of their members, the dynamics of the local economy and are capable of responding to their financial needs. All of our employees are also members of the cooperatives and, therefore, know the needs of the community. Employees participating in the World Credit Union Conference (WOCCU), an international event on Credit Cooperatives. More than 300 hours of online and in-person training and training During the annual strategic planning for the development of employees, we consider both boosting the soft and hard skills of our team. This year, among the training opportunities offered, we had “Communication and Interpersonal Relationships”, “Time Management”, “Emotional Intelligence”, in addition to preparatory courses for CPA 10 and 20 and technical courses such as “Excel from Basic to Advanced”. In addition to the courses and lectures provided by Sicredi Ceará, our employees also have free access to the Sicredi Aprendi platform, which offers distance learning for Sicredi System employees. At least 80% of our team participated in one or more non-mandatory training(s) through the tool. Courses and training continually for our employees, always aligned with the principles of cooperativism.29 Local Development Promotion of Cooperativism Every year, in the month of July, we celebrate C Day (Cooperate Day), a national initiative organized by the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) that seeks to demonstrate the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. On that day, participating organizations carry out social responsibility actions in the communities, aligned with the principles of cooperativism, through of volunteering actions. This year, we made a social investment estimated at R$ 72 thousand reais for actions developed in partnership with the Institute for Cooperation Development, namely: Donation of 35 respiratorselmo to hospitals in our region 9 tons of non-perishable food donated to institutions Caravans of Blood Donation and dissemination of content on the topic Donation of basic items such as clothes, shoes and personal hygiene products Donation of Books for project to encourage readingPromoting financial inclusion With the Cooperation Development Institute, we seek to promote solidarity and spread the seed of cooperativism through short-term initiatives, such as donation campaigns, and long-term ones, such as training. The highlight among the Institute's actions is the provision of professional courses that insert young adults into the job market, thus promoting financial inclusion, income generation and economic growth. local. Elderly Caregivers Course. Delivery of Elmo respirator helmets in Itapipoca/CE.Contribute to the development of communitiesService network AGÊNCIA HOSPITAL REGIONAL UNIMED Av. Visconde do Rio Branco, 4000, Fortaleza/CETel.: (85) 4012.1108 AGÊNCIA PÁTIO DOM LUISAv. Dom Luís, 1200, Fortaleza/CETel.: (85) 4012.1193 AGÊNCIA SANTOS DUMONT R. Gonçalves Lêdo, 777, Fortaleza/CETel.: (85) 4012.1113 AGÊNCIA SEDE Av. Dom Luis, 300, Fortaleza/CETel.: (85) 4012.1110 AGENCY WASHINGTON SOARES Av. Washington Soares, 3777, Fortaleza/CETel.: (85) 4012.1184 AGÊNCIA MONTESE Av. Professor Gomes de Matos, 660, Fortaleza/CE Tel.: (85) 4012-1162 AGÊNCIA CRATEÚS Rua Dom Pedro II, 673, Crateús/CETel.: (88) 3691.0774 AGENCY TAUÁAv. Odilon Aguiar, 21, Tauá/CETel.: (88) 3437.4057Fortaleza and metropolitan region North Region AGÊNCIA ITAPIPOCA R. Raimundo Teoﬁlo De Castro, 256, Itapipoca/CETel.: (88) 3631.2233 AGÊNCIA SOBRAL R. Menino Deus, 771, Sobral/CETel.: (88) 3613.3177 ARACATIR AGENCY. Coronel Alexanzito, 685, Aracati/CE Tel.: (88) 2139.0000 AGÊNCIA LIMOEIRO DO NORTE R. Coronel Antônio Joaquim, 1447, Limoeiro do Norte/CETel.: (88) 3423.3113 AGÊNCIA MORADA NOVA R. Coronel José Ambrósio, 67, Morada Nova/CETel.: (88) 3422.3804 AGÊNCIA QUIXADÁ R. Pascoal Crispino, 139, Quixadá/CETel.: (88) 3412.3775 AGÊNCIA RUSSAS Av. Dom Lino, 287, Russas/CETel.: (88) 3411.1257Vale do Jaguaribe Sertão dos Inhamuns