Information classification: Internal Use Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Campo Grande and Region – Sicredi Campo Grande MS NIRE No.: 54.40000321 -4 | CNPJ No.: 03.042.597/0001 -25 CALL NOTICE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The President of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Campo Grande and Region – Sicredi Campo Grande MS, in the use of the powers conferred on him by article 14 of the Bylaws , convenes the nucleus delegates, who on this date there are 61 (sixty-one) to meet at an ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 15, 2023, at 8 (eight) hours, on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in a second call, at 9 (nine) hours, with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 10 (ten) hours, with the presence of at least 10 ( ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held in person, at ASMMP - South Mato Grosso Association of Members of the Public Ministry, located at Rua Mendel, no. 306, Bairro Carandá Bosque, CEP: 79032 -320, Campo Grande/MS. At the meeting, the following matters will be discussed and resolved: AGENDA: ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING: I - Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a ) management report; B) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - Allocation of surpluses from the year 2022; III - Setting the value of fees, attendance cards and bonuses for members of the Councils and the budget of the Executive Board; IV – Election to the position of Vice-President of the Board of Directors; V - Ratification of the Senior Management Position Succession Policy; Information classification: Use Internal VI - Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. VII - Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Campo Grande/MS, April 1, 202 3. Wardes A. Conte Lemos President OBSERVATIONS: 1. The documents and information on the matters listed on the agenda of the assembly are available at the Cooperative agencies and will be sent to the delegates' e-mails registered in the Cooperative system, and may also be requested via email: tais_fiorese@sicredi.com.br. 2. The meeting will not be held at the Cooperative's headquarters due to lack of adequate physical space.