3 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use BYLAWS OF CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF CAMPO GRANDE AND REGION – SICREDI CAMPO GRANDE MS NIRE No.: 54.4.0000321-4 CNPJ/MF: 03.042.597/0001- 25 CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, ACTION AREA, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Action Area and Duration Period Art. 1 The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Campo Grande and Region – Sicredi Campo Grande MS, established at the General Assembly of October 29, 1998, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, having: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in Campo Grande, in the State of Mato Grosso do Sul, located at Rua Teldo Kasper, nº 467, Chácara Cachoeira, CEP: 79040- 840; II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi Brasil Central, limited to municipalities: Bandeirantes, Camapuã, Campo Grande, Corguinho, Dois Irmãos do Buriti, Jaraguari, Ribas do Rio Pardo, Rio Negro, Rochedo, Terenos, Dourados, all in the State of Mato Grosso do Sul; III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2 The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Mato Grosso do Sul, Goiás, Distrito Federal and Tocantins – Central Sicredi Brasil Central, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. 4 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A ( SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and expression of the respective Central in the general assembly and in core assemblies with members, of which it must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 3º The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - systemic standards on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with regulations own; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally defined by the System; III - official regulations and regulations Sicredi internal staff. § 4 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to being subject to other sanctions provided for by law. § 5º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in the event of risk to the solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 6 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; 5 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use II - obligations contracted by movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 7º Integration into Sicredi also implies the subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 8 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 9º The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to compliance with the legislation and regulations in force and also with the rules specific to the Sicredi, being able to examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports arising from the verification. § 10. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with with their own regulations, they form a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11. Central Sicredi Brasil Central as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 12. The expression "legislation" includes the laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE 6 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and clubs investment, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital from other companies or entities of the System, as well as making use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. CHAPTER III MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree may be members of the Cooperative with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: 7 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use I - individuals who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; IV - others legal entities that have a link with the cooperative or with one of its members, regardless of where they are established; V - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited in terms of maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2nd Para acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of minimum shares provided for in §2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º The following will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative and will not be able to remain there, in addition to the hypotheses provided for in the legislation: I - anyone who may compete with the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or that conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; 8 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use VII - that that carry out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - that one that violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items III and IV of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in nucleus meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors statutory and internal regulatory changes, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or normative-statutory infraction committed by an associate ; 9 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, through request from 5% (five percent) of members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved at a general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - do not practice, within and outside the Cooperative, activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. 10 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Sole paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early expiration of all its obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities that are part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the formula calculation approved by the general meeting, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º below. § 2 The associates respond jointly, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II 11 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly comply with obligations and other commitments made to the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act with bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Cooperative. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in their opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period of time or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in the form of this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5º When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days he can present his defense reasons, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at your next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. §1 Change of address after association will not be considered as loss of statutory entry requirement or permanence in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS 13 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and varies according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 2,500,000.00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. § 3 The request for re-entry of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may delegate to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete its readmission. § 4º The general assembly, upon proposal of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, the members subscribe and pay in new shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital contributions, except as described in § 2 of this article, subscription and monthly payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit into a deposit account. . § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as a guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus the surpluses or losses from the corresponding fiscal year, subject to the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. 14 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 9 The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general meeting, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurs, with payment in installments permitted. payment by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 10. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 11. The Social Capital may be refunded to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 9 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting the compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 12. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (z) years or retires due to disability, may , exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining its status as an associate, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 13. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 15 (fifteen) years may submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw up to 50% (fifty percent) of their share capital. After this period and every 10 (ten) years, the member may redeem up to 50% (fifty percent) of the value of the share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. 15 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 14. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their member status, with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. § 15. If the Cooperative has, on December 31 of the previous year, constituted reserves that correspond to at least 100% (one hundred percent) of the capital requirements established by the Central Bank of Brazil on this same base date, excluding the values ​​of contributions from the Guarantee Funds, of any modality, the Board of Directors may, exceptionally, authorize partial redemption in fortuitous cases or force majeure, as well as making the criteria more flexible. of partial withdrawal established in §§ 12, 13 and 14 above, maintaining the status of member with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. § 16. In cases of upon dismissal of the member, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his dismissal from membership occurred. In the event of a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 18. The return referred to in §§ 12, 13, 14 and 15, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be given at the discretion of the collegiate, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with installments of payment by the Cooperative also being permitted. § 19. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. 16 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 20. If the member does not promptly comply with the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration over the capital shares, maintaining their membership status with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. CHAPTER V GENERAL MEETING: GENERAL PROVISIONS, GENERAL MEETING ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions of interest to the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or discordant. § 1 The rendering of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of components of the administrative and fiscal councils, when it concerns matters on the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously considered in core assemblies, which may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. § 2 The other matters on the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly in Delegates' Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will subsequently inform the associates. § 4 The coordination of core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if they are unable to do so, by whomever he indicates. Art. 14. General meetings (ordinary and/or extraordinary) will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice published in a newspaper and posted in appropriate locations. information: Unrestricted use of facilities commonly frequented by members, in addition to communication through physical circulars or electronic means. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights , in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the address of the place where it will be held, which, unless there is a justified reason, will be the registered office; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications and, in the case of Statute reform, an indication of the matter; IV - the number of delegates existing on the date of its dispatch, for the purpose of establishing a quorum; V - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 The General Assemblies referred to in the caput may be held in person and/or remotely, by physical means and/or electronic, as long as this condition is included in the call notice. § 5 Assemblies that are held remotely must guarantee the effective participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; 18 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, associates, grouped by nuclei, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will be duration of 4 (four) years, with the possibility of being re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever the matters are appreciated by the members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies for delegates among the nuclei will be based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 61 (sixty-one) nuclei, observing its own regulations; II - the grouping of members in centers can be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules set out in the specific regulations. 19 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place in a Core Assembly, in person or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one delegate will be elected alternate, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the ranking order will take into account the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process for the choice of new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. General meetings will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2 When If the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be chaired and served as a secretariat by a delegate or other member chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the table. 20 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his alternate or another appointed associate, as appropriate. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except regarding matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for whose validity the votes of 2 are required. /3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings They will be included in the minutes, approved and signed by the President of the Assembly and the Secretary of Work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum , so in the opening as in the restart(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The ordinary general assembly must be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; 21 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to coverage of the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses for the members of the Councils; V - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, in c. V, of this Statute, excluding those of competence exclusive to the extraordinary general meeting. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the notice of convocation. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. 22 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and independence , reporting operationally to the same board. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors Administration, a collegial deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 9 (nine) advisors, including a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, without prejudice to meeting the requirements complementary provisions set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Si credi, or even with a member of the board of directors, supervisory board or the Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; 23 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having taken advantage of 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at Coop erativa or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have a negative record in any database; VIII - not have, through intent or fault, committed an irregularity that caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of the entities that make up Sicredi; IX- have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) core assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated, in the immediately preceding exercise, or participate in the courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the system, according to the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance to all other events aimed at directors during their term of office, up to 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for full compliance with statutory and legal equities, being prohibited accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the cooperative; XII - have performed, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Pertencer Program in at least a mandate in the cooperative, or having held a statutory position in the cooperative; XIII - have certification from the Crescer Program; XIV – have training in a higher-level course; 24 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use XV - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVI - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, for any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by the entities that make up Sicredi; XVII - not having suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVIII - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which they are a member, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, us last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months; § 1 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position for which they were elected. § 2 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, given that Those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. § 3 In licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. Once the absences of the President and Vice-President are verified at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements, from among its components. § 4 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that if you continue to elect new occupant(s) for said position(s), confirming or not the designated one(s), and the elected person(s) will serve the time 25 Classification of information: Unrestricted use remaining in the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. If the number of Council members is reduced to less than 3 (three), with the exception of the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the time lack of management. § 5 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 3 (three) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with the legislation in force; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 6 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political-partisan position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position . § 7 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood as: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, Deputy State and Federal, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. In general, they are elected according to the "convention" of the party, assuming the functions of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to regulations the Party's own; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, on an ordinary monthly basis, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President, the majority of the Board itself, or even upon request the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1 The meetings of the Board of Directors will be called, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of self-interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner ( a) or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, the Board of Directors is responsible for, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establishing the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitoring the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; 27 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in relation to objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of associates, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VI - decide on the payment of annual remuneration on capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the C operative's real estate, classified as non-current; VIII - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - examine and determine the reporting infractions committed within the Company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and determining the application of applicable penalties; X - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XI – decide on the call for a general meeting; XII - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, meeting the social purposes of the Cooperative and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIII - authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as to decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of the 28 Classification of information: Unrestricted use of other facilities or branches of the Cooperative, within or outside the host municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XIV - comply with and enforce this Statute, the legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XV - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVI - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVII - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors appoint other members to functions of an auxiliary nature, will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the activities of the Cooperative, including compliance with applicable rules, coordinating the action by the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of programs for organizing Sicredi's membership, development and management, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the work plan, annual or multi-year, as well as budget proposals, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the 29 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use, demonstration of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Fiscal Council and independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership framework, subject to the special powers of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic and corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, convening and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to the members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or by the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Administrative Council. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his/her leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in which the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest to the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, being an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and no. 30 Classification of information: Unrestricted use maximum 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the Directors' term of office or vacancy, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the position not occupied will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. § 4 The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or out of it, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of item VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 5 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before public bodies federal, state and municipal authorities, government agencies and mixed-economy companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be qualified to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: 31 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, as well as § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 6 and 7 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V - complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. It is up to the Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - operationally manage the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic-financial state of society, observing the provided for in this Statute; III - appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, subject to the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as the Cooperative's current assets, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such transactions; 32 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of goods movable, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities inherent to the Cooperative’s ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members, respecting the authority approved by the Board of Directors. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; 33 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use b) provide resources and ensure the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) be responsible for performance management and monitoring the Cooperative's results, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the work plan, annual or multi-year, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and performance indicators of the Coop erativa; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, b) how to take measures in the process of supervision and ensuring compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - To the Business Director: 34 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; B) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of guarantees, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for. in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical means and/or electronic, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within his competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 5, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. 35 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Sole paragraph. In case of vacancy of all positions of the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Credit Clearing Service Checks and Other Papers, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause damage to the Company, will be liable directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the form of the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and an equal number of substitutes, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing if, regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVIII of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires complete, independent and unrelated slate(s) from the election of the Board of Directors, with an indication of the order of replacement, subject to the other conditions mentioned above. § 1 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2º The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a person legal entity of which you are a partner, considering as usual the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, a duration of more than 2 ( two months. 36 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use § 3 The term of office will be 3 (three) years, with renewal of at least 2 (two) members at each election, 1 (one) being effective and 1 (one) alternate. § 4 The elected councilors They will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 40. In the event of temporary absence, or in the event of vacancy, the effective advisors will be replaced by alternates, in compliance with the order established in the election minutes. § 1 In the event of 4 (four) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to fill them, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 5, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political position, party member, must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of the position becoming vacant. 37 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 41. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and systemic regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising assiduous supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and acts of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the statements accounting reports for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, the dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to obtain advice from internal auditors and external parties to provide information necessary for the performance of their functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the audit independent, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative collegiate bodies, formally established, in relation to to subjects strategic-corporate interests of all the individual cooperatives and their central members of Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, alerting it to the irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; 38 Information classification: Unrestricted Use VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, investigating compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which results from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the inertia or refusal of this , of timely reporting to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the necessary measures applicable, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts for one year ending on December 31st. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 45% (forty-five percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; 39 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use II - 05% (five percent), at least, for the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families and employees of the Cooperative ; III - the The remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the limit necessary, in new shares of the members' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining the mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The destination of leftovers and the apportionment of Losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER X DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION Art. 47. In addition to other hypotheses provided for by law, the Cooperative dissolves as of right: 40 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use I - when the general assembly so decides, provided that 20 (twenty) members, at least, do not willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period not less than 6 (six) months, are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER current. CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. 41 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to be received within 5 (five) days, counting of your shipment. Art. 52. Any omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after consultation with the social bodies, when appropriate. Campo Grande/MS, April 9, 2022. 42 Wardes A. Conte Lemos President Antonio Kikuo Kurose Vice-President