Sicredi Campo Gr ande MS Newsletter 2023 December/2023 - 1st EditionDear Members, We are a Cooperative Credit System present in all Brazilian states and the Federal District, we have reached the mark of 7.5 million members. Today we have more than 2,600 branches across the country and in 200 municipalities, we are the only financial institution. We at Sicredi Campo Grande MS have a lot to celebrate, in October we completed 25 years of the cooperative, a trajectory marked by a lot of development in our region. We have evolved along with the System, growing both in assets and in the number of members. In 2023 we reached the mark of 70 thousand members, this means many more people united for the development of Credit Cooperatives, demonstrating the trust placed in this business model. In the Silver Jubilee of our Cooperative, we consolidate its greatness, its achievements and we are sure that with your trust and support, Let's build a more prosperous society together, generating more business, opportunities, social development and quality of life for our associates and the community. Message from President Wardes A. Conte Lemos President It's up to us to decide and transform. In 2023, Sicredi Campo Grande held the Core Assembly in a semi-presential and simultaneous manner. In this modality, members were able to participate in the event digitally, through the Pertencer Program Platform and in the Cooperative agencies, listed in the Call Notice, published on March 8, 2023. The Assembly began on March 20, 2023, at 9 am (local time) and ended on March 24, 2023, at 5 pm hours (local time). Members of the 61 cooperative centers were invited to participate and vote on the agenda. 9,969 members participated in the assembly process, equivalent to 14% of the membership. After the election of the Coordinators, all groups voted on the other agendas presented, in accordance with the Notice of Convocation of the Assembly. Below is the result of the Core Assembly: For the cores, Carandá Bosque 01, Jaraguari 01, Nova Lima 01, Rachid Neder 01, Rachid Neder 02, Ribas do Rio Pardo 03 and Zahran 05, the election of the Coordinator and his Substitutes was held, as per the list below: Carandá Bosque 01: Leonardo Correia, Ana Paula Felicio, Ev ander M. de Rezende. Jaraguari 01: Antonio João Ferreira Rosa, Deiller Dialhes Gomes Ribeir o, Durval Ferreira Filho. Nova Lima 01: Eduardo dos Reis Jagarnauth, Claudia Aparecida S. Antunes, Elizete da Silva F. de Moraes. Rachid Neder 01: Rodrigo F. Gomes da Cruz, Ieda Maria Vanzin, Ricar do Reinhardt Branc o.Rachid Neder 02: Walmir Fagundes de Sousa, Marcio de Oliveira Jitsumori, Wiilian Silva dos Santos. Ribas do Rio P ardo 03: Neide Terezinha de Oliveira, Adenir de Almeida Correa, Pedro Francisco Claro. Zahran 05: Wilson L evi Teslenco, Jair Nogueira, Luiz P edro Gomes Rodrigues. Elected Coordinators: Result of the 2023 Nucleus Assembly Provision of accounts Allocation of leftovers from the 2022 financial year Setting fees Election Vice-President Ratiﬁcation of the Senior Management Position Succession Policy Unanimously approved by all nuclei Approved unanimously by all the coresApproved unanimously by all the coresUnanimously approved by all the coresUnanimously approved by all the coresThe votes of the nuclei, were taken to the Ordinary General Assembly, held on April 15, 2023, at 10 am, in the social hall of the Sul-Mato-Grossense Association of Members of the Public Ministry - ASMMP, located at Rua Mendel, nº 306, Bairro Carandá Bosque, in Campo Grande/MS. 61 (sixty-one) delegates were present, able to vote, thus ratifying the approval of the agendas voted on at the Core Assembly. This year, Sicredi Campo Grande MS decided to unite the economic, social and environment, promoting the ECOS Assembly. In addition to discussing the Cooperative's economic issues with members, we also raise the following issues: Environmental: use of sustainable t-shirts, made from natural cotton fabric, where some chemical processes have been canceled, bringing a reduction in the environmental impact generated by industrialization and each ecological t-shirt was accompanied by a numbered tag with native seeds from the Atlantic Forest for planting, thus contributing to the reforestation. Social: for each vote in the Assembly, the cooperative donated one kilo of non-perishable food. This generated the donation of 10 tons to institutions in the municipalities where we operate. The food was purchased from companies associated with Sicredi Campo Grande MS and directly from the municipalities where they were delivered, putting the I Cooperate with the Local Economy initiative into practice, directly strengthening community businesses. Donation deliveries took place between months from April to June 2023, in the municipalities of Rochedo, Camapuã, Campo Grande, Corguinho, Bandeirantes, Ribas do Rio Pardo, Terenos and Jaraguari. We highlight that, in 2023, the results were distributed to members on April 26th. The amount distributed to members totaled R$15.1 million, proportionally to their financial operations. As approved in item 2 of the meeting agenda: 50% of the amount was credited to Savings and the other 50% was allocated to Share capital. Ordinary General AssemblyAlso in 2023, we held the Extraordinary General Assembly, to adapt the Cooperative's bylaws, complying with the normative changes of Complementary Law 196/2022, which changed provisions of Complementary Law 130/2009, which regulates the National System of Cooperative Credit (SNCC) and CMN Resolution 5,051/2022, which regulated Complementary Law 130/2009. All 61 core delegates were summoned on October 28, 2023, to 10 am, at Avenida Mato Grosso, 5046, Carandá do Bosque, in Campo Grande/MS. There were 51 Center Coordinators present, able to vote. The statutory changes are awaiting approval from the Central Bank. Art. 1st: exclusion and inclusion of Municipalities in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; Art. 2: to establish the criteria for disaffiliation from the Center; Art. 3: to add provisions to the Cooperative's corporate purpose; Art. 4: inclusion of a provision that allows participation in other companies or entities; Art. 5: change the conditions for admission to the Cooperative's membership; Art. 10: adjustment to the membership elimination process; Art. 11: adjustment to provision on exclusion from membership; Art. 12: amend provisions on share capital; Art. 13: insert the possibility of holding a meeting in person, remotely or in person and remotely simultaneously; Art. 14: change the formalities for summoning and holding a general meeting; Art. 18: adjustment to the topic dealing with the election of delegates; Art. 24: Insert the approval of the remuneration policy for the members of the Executive Board into the agenda of the ordinary general meeting; Art. 27: adjust the requirements for holding a position on the Board of Directors; Art. 28: provision on the methods of holding meetings of the Board of Directors; Art. 29: adjust the powers of the Board of Directors; Art. 30: adjustment in the competences of the President; Art. 31: provision that allows the President to delegate functions/responsibilities to the Vice-President; Art. 32: provision on the tenure of the Executive Board; Art. 33: adjustment to the requirements for appointment of the Executive Board; Art. 36: remission update; Art. 38: change the composition and tenure of the Fiscal Council; Art.39: change in the provisions dealing with Fiscal Council meetings; Art. 40: amend the provisions on vacancies in the Fiscal Council and adjust the wording; Art. 41: adjustment in the powers of the Supervisory Board; Art. 44: change the percentage allocated to the Reserve Fund, include the possibility of using resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES) in actions linked to the community, as well as the possibility of allocating surpluses to recompose guarantee funds; Art. 52: inclusion of a provision that deals with the extraordinary legitimacy of the Cooperative to defend the collective rights of its members; Art. 53: inclusion of a transitional provision on the change made in the composition of the Fiscal Council, and remuneration of the subsequent article. The Assembly unanimously approved the following changes: Extraordinary General Assembly In 2023, we brought Financial Education to more than 9,000 people through the Program Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis. And only in the 10th Enef Week, we took Financial Education to more than 3,000 young people, through stand up comedy, based on the content of Cooperação in Ponta do Lápis. União faz a Vida is today Sicredi's largest social responsibility program and we currently have it in the municipalities of Terenos, Bandeirantes, Ribas do Rio Pardo, Jaraguari and Camapuã. 1,030 children served and 106 Educators. In 2023, Sicredi invested in more than 350 hours in training and pedagogical advice for Educators involved in the A União faz a Vida Program. On October 4, 2023, we took to Camapuã, through Fundação Sicredi, the show Zum Zum Zum – The Union makes Life, held at the Conviver Hall. The show visited 95 Brazilian cities, addressing the concepts of cooperation, union and recognition of each person's uniqueness in a playful and fun way. More than 450 children from the municipal education network participated in the event. Through the Crescer Program, we bring Cooperative Education to our associates and collaborators. In 2023, this initiative involved more than 2,000 associates and collaborators. Today we have 179 core coordinators. In 2023, we begin the Center Coordinator's Journey, where over the 4 years of office, we will deal with issues that will support them in the development of activities that involve the position, such as: What it means to be a Center Coordinator, Cooperativism, Leadership Development and Preparation for Succession. In addition to the Core Coordinator Journey, Cooperativ offers the Core Coordinator Development Program, in partnership with SESCOOP. In 2023 the Program was carried out in 6 modules of 8 hours each, totaling 48 hours of workload. Still on the practice of leadership development, in 2023 we carried out the Cooperativism Expedition, a study trip composed of Core Coordinators, Counselors and Collaborators. The group took the Cooperativism Route, visiting the Sicredi Administrative Center in Porto Alegre and visiting the city of Nova Petrópolis, the birthplace of Cooperativism in America Latina.Simple attitudes move the world Volunteering - Social responsibility actions - Day C In addition to collecting food during the 2023 Assembly, the cooperative organized/participated in actions such as: Arraiá que Coopera (3 tons of food), Ticoop Food Collection ( 536 kilos of food ), Lecture given by the Women's Committee to the Camapuã community: Quality of Life Strategy for entrepreneurial mothers, Donation of school supplies to the Dionizio Antonio School Vieira, in JaraguariChristmas Actions: OCB MS Cooperation Christmas – We collected 600 kilos of food and 200 toys. Christmas that Cooperates (Action by Sicredi Campo Grande MS) – We collected 404 toys and 266 panetones, which were destined for 250 families, including 350 children, in the Paulo Coelho Machado neighborhood and held a Christmas action on 12/16 for the delivery of donations, with popcorn, soda, cotton candy, hot dogs and games. In 2023, the cooperative, together with the community and associates, it collected and donated more than 14 tons of food. Sicredi Campo Grande participated in Summit Mulher, an event organized by Central Sicredi Brasil Central, where it took 42 women, including Cooperative Managers and Members of the Women's Committee. The Women's Summit had as its theme: Female protagonism yields a better future. The Sicredi Women's Committee Program is a set of actions with associated women, with an educational purpose that seeks to promote gender equity, empowering women so that they can participate in management at all levels of the organization, leading, undertaking and promoting sustainable development in the economic, social and environmental sense of our business model. The Women's Committee in 2023 held 7 meetings and the following topics were discussed: I am a Member of the Women's Committee, what now?; Communication and influence on leadership; Quality of Life Strategies for entrepreneurial mothers; Leadership authentic and transformative; Communication and Oratory. MulherSUMMIT 2023 Female protagonism yields a better future. With the aim of developing women entrepreneurs, providing access to financial solutions and training related to entrepreneurship and local socio-economic development, we launched the Capital Delas project in 2023, developed at Agência Parati. In 2023, Capital Delas had 4 meetings with the following themes: Female Entrepreneurship, Financial Organization, Entrepreneurial Routine and Entrepreneurship in 2024. Between the 4 meetings, more than 80 women were able to exchange experiences, network and acquire knowledge. In celebration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of Sicr edi Campo Grande MS, the Board of Directors promoted a remarkable expedition, traveling more than 700km to visit all the cooperative's branches. This journey covered agencies in the interior, in the municipalities of Bandeirantes, Camapuã, Corguinho, Jaraguari, Ribas do Rio Pardo, Rio Negro, Rochedo and Terenos, followed by visits to all agencies in the capital, Campo Grande. Board of Directors Board of Directors Expedition 25 years Expedition 25 years Expedition 25 yearsBoard of Directors We enthusiastically celebrate the cooperative's 25 years, highlighting vibrant festivities in all branches throughout the month of October. Joy infects not only the celebrations present, but also reveres, in a special way, the members founders and their representatives. We thank everyone who has shaped the cooperative's success over these two and a half decades. United in the festivities and in building the future, we solidified a robust financial foundation for our community. In order to strengthen our identification with the region, we launched a campaign to rename the agency, previously called Capital Morena. Voting took place from July 17 to 31, 2023, allowing the community to choose between four options, with Agência Parati being chosen by the majority. On August 18th, during the agency's 7th anniversary, we closed the campaign, held a draw and awarded three voting participants. In addition to the new name, determined by the population, on the 17th and 18th during the anniversary celebration, we had the participation of local partners, who exhibited and sold their products in front of the Agency, contributing to the "I I cooperate with the local economy", strengthening ties and driving joint growth. With the renewed name and a modernized environment, we seek to provide even more efficient service to you, our members. Parati Agency Parati Agency Parati AgencyR achid Neder Agency C oronel Antonino AgencyInauguration of the Rachid Neder Agency and Reopening of the Coronel Antonino Agency In 2023, we celebrated the inauguration of the Rachid Neder agency and the reopening of the Coronel Antonino agency, reaffirming our commitment to community in Campo Grande, MS.Fairs and Events We will be present at more than 40 events throughout 2023, covering a variety of sectors, including: auctions, agricultural fairs, charitable events, sports, gastronomic, educational, cultural, fairs, among others . These participations highlight our brand and differences, actively contributing to the local economy and the development of the community in which we operate.Expogrande Superamas2nd Feira Sicredi do Agribusiness From the 13th to the 17th of December, we held the 2nd Sicredi Agribusiness Fair at Parque do Laçador in Campo Grande. The event was held in partnership with the Federation of Clube do Laço de MS and had the support of ICATU Seguros. We brought together 37 associated exhibitors, covering various sectors, such as agricultural equipment and inputs, light and heavy vehicles, machinery and solar panels. We highlight the promotion of exceptional opportunities for local agribusiness during the fair. InvestDay On 11/07, we held InvestDay, divided between the morning with professionals from the Public Ministry and the evening at the Medical Association with health specialists. The event covered crucial tips for investment decisions. Cristina Kelly, the speaker, shared insights about the economic scenario and investment opportunities. We highlight essential points for investors when considering investment offers. Furthermore, we entered into an agreement with the CRO, providing diverse opportunities for the entire dental profession. Our best investment is the Sicredi Campo Gr ande MS relationship. On July 15th, we held the ‘‘Mission in Movement’’ Seminar, bringing together more than 400 employees. During this seminar, we provide knowledge and create alignments on the mission, vision, values ​​and purposes of the cooperative. The main objective was to train our employees, providing them with tools to achieve excellence in service to all associates. Health in Motion Between the 25th and 30th of September, we held Health in Motion Week, marked by lectures, content sharing and an exciting sports tournament. We close the week with a mix of entertainment and inspiration for our employees, reaffirming our cooperative's commitment to the well-being and health of everyone who contributes to building a more prosperous society together! work with us! Visit: sicredi.gup y.io Dear Associate of Sicredi Campo Gr ande MS We express our gratitude to you at this very special time. It is a moment of reﬂection, celebration and recognition of the relationships built. Together, we overcome challenges, celebrate achievements and strengthen bonds of friendship. We appreciate your partnership and cooperation in 2023, we look forward to building an even brighter future together. Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year! Sicredi Campo Gr ande MSWardes A. Conte Lemos President Odive Soares Director of OperationsRonaldo Sorana Executive DirectorService network Sicredi Campo Grande MS Campo Gr ande - MS Agência Campo Gr ande Rua 13 de Maio, 3669 (67) 3312-7600 Agência Cor onel Antonino Consul Assa f Trad, 215 (67) 3351-2414 Agência Jardin dos Estados Rua Bahia, 796 (67) 3322-1200 Agência Capit al Mor ena Rua da Division, 1.100 (67) 3378-3200 Agência Chác ara Cachoeir on Rua Jeribá , 980 (67) 3357-1550 Attorney's Office Agency Pr esid Street. Manuel Ferraz de Campos Salles, 214 (67) 3318-2136 Agência Cear á Rua Cear á, 1675 (67) 3323-4700 Agência Z ahran Av. Eduar do Elias Z ahran, 1947 (67) 3348-5900 Business Office leisure T JMS Av. Ma to Grosso, Bl. 13 Pq. dos P oder es (67) 3320-1600 Agência Nov a Lima Rua Jer ônônimo de Albuquer que, 1834 (67) 3358-2100 Agência Car andá Bosque Rua Nagib Ouriv es, 192 (67) 3322-1700 Agência Rachid Neder Av. Rachid Neder, 651 (67) 3368-1800 Bandeir before -MS Agência Bandeir before av. 1499 Jaraguari -MS Agência Jar aguari Rua José Ser aﬁm Ribeir o, S/N (67) 99808-8508 Ribas do Rio P ardo -MS Agência Ribas do Rio P ardo Av. Aur eliano Mour a Brandão, 748 (67) 3238- 5050 Rio Negr o -MS Esc. de Negócios de Rio Negr o Rua A tualpa Simões, 575 -Cen tro 67 99995-9868 Rochedo -MS Agência R ochedo Rua Albino Coimbr a, 150 (67) 3289-1189 Terenos -MS Agência T erenos Rua Elvir a Mathias de Oliveira, 520 (67) 3246-8500 Administrative Headquarters Rua Teldo Kasper, 467, Chácara Cachoeira | Campo Grande/MS - (67) 3322-1400 sicredicampograndesicredicgsicredicampogrande.com.br nsicredicampogrande