1 Annual Report Sicredi Campo Grande MS 2021Annual Report Sicredi Campo Grande MS 20213 TOGETHER WE MAKE A DIFFERENCE ................................ ............... 04 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ............................... .................... 04 OUR COOPERATIVE ......................... ...................................... 05 »Council ...... .................................................... ........................... 05 »Financial statements ................................................. 06 »Our numbers ............................................... ..................... 07 PEOPLE MANAGEMENT ..................... ............................................... 08 EXPANSION OF THE COOPERATIVE .. .................................................... 10 »Simple attitudes move the world ........................................ 11 »Program União Faz a Vida transforms the lives of children and adolescents .................................................... ......................... 12 » Core coordinators participate in training ................. ...... .. 14 »Women's committee develops leadership in the cooperative.................. .. 15 »ENEF Week - Financial Education ....... ............................ 16 »Development of the SSC area ............... ........................... 17 »Saving with Sicredi .................. ............................................. 18 » To grow with more than 900 members ........................................ 19 » Strength of cooperativism .................................................... ..... 19 »23 years of cooperative ....................................... ................... 20 »I Cooperate with the Local Economy .................................... ................ 21 SERVICE NETWORK .............................. ................................. 22 SummarySummary4 ​​Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS Message from presidentTogether we make a difference Wardes A. Conte Lemos President of Sicredi Campo Grande MS We are Sicredi, and we chose to follow a collective path to offer intelligent solutions for your financial development. We understand that the best choices are those that bring results for everyone. We offer more than 300 financial products and services in a simple and close way for you, your company and your agribusiness. But what makes us different is When you join, you acquire a small share of your cooperative, becoming the owner of Sicredi, having a voice over business decisions and participating in the results. That's why Sicredi is yours, mine and ours. Here everyone has the opportunity to decide and participate, thus creating bonds of trust that allow us to grow. Together. Sicredi Campo Grande MS has been operating for 23 years transforming the lives of our associates and their communities in the State of Mato Grosso do Sul. And so that you get to know and participate in the Cooperative, we will share, in this report, information about how we generated value throughout 2021, including the main achievements, financial results, events held and solutions offered. We will also show how our responsible and close action contributed to generating a positive impact on the lives of associates, the community and the region. Good reading! This year, credit cooperatives celebrate 120 years of history and Since then, it has been inspired by people focusing on improving the quality of life of associates and the community where it operates. And that is why we, at Sicredi Campo Grande, are proud to be committed to the ideals that guide us, ratifying our commitment to our mission, which is “to value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improve the quality of life of associates and society.” And thanks to the good relationship we have, we can celebrate the acquisition of 8,800 new members in 2021, surpassing the mark of 60 thousand members. We are an alternative to what is on the market, we take care of the financial resources of our members while caring for and prioritizing people. And speaking of resources, in 2021, we surpassed more than R$2 billion in total assets under management, a growth of 22% compared to 2020. And this growth gives us the security that the time has come to expand, with the opening of 5 new branches in Mato Grosso do Sul (Ag. Jaraguari, Ag. Nova Lima, Ag Carandá, Ag. Rachid Neder, Ag. Rio Negro).5 Fiscal Council With the mission of taking care of everyone's interests and the Cooperative, attracting assiduous and thorough corporate management, ensuring business continuity. Observe compliance with legal duties, Bylaws and current rules of the cooperative system. Meet our Tax Advisors. From the left. right: Sergio Guimarães, Orlamar Gregório, Aparecido do Carmo, Elizete Barbosa, Eliseu Neckel and Carlito de Azevedo. Board of Directors The members of the Board of Directors are elected by the members at the Assemblies. The body is responsible for providing the general, strategic orientation and objectives of the Cooperative, in addition to supervising its governance, so that its actions meet the interests of members. Meet our Board Members Wardes Lemos, Antonio Kurose, Flodoaldo Alencar, Francisco Laranjeira, Jefferson Calvis, Mariana Vanni and Matilde Arantes Our cooperative October 29, 1998 marks the beginning of the history of Sicredi Campo Grande. A dream of 25 founding partners who set out to implement a cooperative society for the benefit of the community. We have been growing together with Mato Grosso do Sul for 23 years. We are part of a national system, with specialized companies and financial instruments that increase the security of our members and strengthen our local action. In 2021, Sicredi Campo Grande MS had a 15% growth in the number of members and currently, the Cooperative is made up of more than 5,9 thousand members, present in 8 municipalities: Campo Grande, Rochedo, Camapuã, Corguinho, Bandeirantes, Ribas do Rio Pardo, Terenos and Jaraguari. The expansion in 2022 begins with the opening of 5 more branches, 3 of them in the city of Campo Grande, 1 new branch in Jaraguari and one in Rio Negro. And we still have under study, the expansion to another State.6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS7 Campo Grande - Campo Grande Agency - Coronel Antonino Agency - Jardim dos Estados Agency - Capital Morena Agency - Chácara Cachoeira Agency - Attorney's Office - Ceará Agency - Zahran Agency - Norte Sul Plaza Agency - TJMS AgencyCities with Sicredi branches Campo Grande MS Area of ​​operation and expansion of Sicredi Campo Grande MS 59 thousandAssociates 220 MillionR$ in net equityR$42 MillionResult of 1,806 BillionsR$ in assets Data from December 2021Net income available to the AGO more than 17 Million More than 59 THOUSAND associates 15 branches and 2 advanced service points 348 employees in 8 municipalities More than 300 financial solutions More than R$1.806 Billion in assets More of R$ 220 Million in net equity More than R$ 896 Million in total depositsOur cooperative in numbers Presence in 08 municipalities in Mato Grosso do SulBusiness office.Eagencies15 28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS People Management • Corporate Education With the pandemic, digital access to our online education platform increased. In 2021, there were 14,932 enrollments in Sicredi Aprendi, with an average of 57 hours of training per employee. In addition to Sicredi Aprendi, in partnership with Sescoop/MS and other institutions, face-to-face and online training took place, including PDLC - Program for the Development of Cooperative Leaders, Formacoop – Training program for leaders and managers, Neurolinguistic Programming, Enneagram, Preparatory Courses for CPA 10 certification, Contemporary Cooperatives, Training of Business Segments (Individuals, Legal and Agro), among others. Diversity and Inclusion, Communication and Business, Feedback, Yellow September, Pink October, Blue November were also topics of important talks. • 2021 climate survey and GPTW certification In 2021, the Climate Survey was carried out with the GPTW (Great Place to Work) methodology, which is a global consultancy that supports organizations to obtain better results through a culture of trust, high performance and innovation. A great place to work is where you trust and like the people you work with and are proud of what you do. The Research provides support for better Cooperative Management, mapping competitive differences and action plan priorities for us to evolve, with questions that evaluate the dimensions of Credibility, Respect, Impartiality, Pride and Collaboration, in addition to our cultural practices.• Integration of new employees We are a cooperative and the center of our business is people. Therefore, welcoming our employees is essential and they are received in a special way through an integration that takes place twice a month, in which the Cooperative Culture and Sicredi's activities are presented, among other important information for the start of your journey. Thus, employees begin their activities knowing the differences of working in a Cooperative, strengthening our purpose and offering practical information to support this moment of new learning. The Climate Survey took place in July 2021 and the results were: Favorability Index of 82% and an e-NPS (Employee Net Promotor Score), an index that measures employee satisfaction, with a score of 76, numbers considered excellent when compared with the best companies to work for in our country. Integration of employees carried out at the Zahran agency.9 • COVID-19 In addition to maintaining all safety and prevention protocols against COVID 19, as well as communication reinforcements with our internal campaign “Gente que Coopera Cuida”, we had monitoring number of vaccinated employees, through a Vacinometer that centralized information on employees who received vaccine doses against COVID 19. We also formed partnerships with local laboratories to support testing for employees who had symptoms and/or suspicions of the disease. • +evolution Workshop To close the year 2021, we promoted the +Evolution Workshop with all Cooperative managers, a time to share our results and strategic alignment for the 2022 cycle. Come make a difference with us In just 3 steps It is possible to be part of the Sicredi Campo Grande team. If If you identify with our Cooperative Essence or know a talent, access the QR code. Class gathered after holding the Workshop + Evolution Event sicredi.gupy.io10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS Cooperative grows and expands service Following up on the Cooperative's expansion plan, promoting the development of the region, in 2021 the 1st branch of the Sicredi in Terenos, located in the city center. The Agency was also reopened in Corguinho and the Business Office in Jaraguari. The opening of the branches contributes to the expansion of credit cooperatives in cities and reflects the performance of the cooperative financial institution which, through a close and consultative relationship, identifies the needs of members, offering them more sustainable financial solutions. Inauguration of the Business Office in Reopening of the Corguinho Agency.New structure of the Corguinho agency.Facade of the agency Terenos. Space reserved for photosSpace reserved for photosSpace reserved for photosSpace reserved for photos All branches have a modern and comfortable space, designed to create an even more cooperative experience between members and the community. The internal environment offers every comfort, providing agile service and better relationships with members. And to be increasingly available to the community, in addition to the physical agency, the Cooperative it also offers a multiple network of channels, with self-service ATMs, mobile and internet banking. New branches are planned in 2022, in Campo Grande in Bairro Nova Lima, Carandá Bosque and on Av. Rachid Neder, inland in the cities of Jaraguari and Rio Negro. 11 Cooperate Day is a national movement to encourage voluntary, continuous and transformative initiatives carried out by cooperatives, fully aligned with the Development Goals Sustainable, proposed by the UN to eradicate extreme poverty in the world by 2030. Every year, Sicredi Campo Grande participates and carries out actions in favor of the community. In 2021, a campaign was promoted to collect food and personal hygiene materials. The action mobilized employees, associates and members of the Women's Committee. The donations collected in the Capital were donated to the São João Bosco Asylum and those in the interior were given to needy families. The asylum serves approximately 85 elderly people and the marketing manager, Joyce Zanni explains that the Hygiene material is very important due to all the daily care that elderly men and women receive, the donation made by Sicredi which maintains a very special link with each of them. Elias Clecir de Souza, manager of Agência Camapuã highlights how doing good is rewarding. “We put together several baskets with meat, chicken and even sweets for the children and we see how we need to develop social actions throughout the year and how we can do good and transform the world around us, and above all, be more grateful”, he highlighted. “Being a cooperative means, first and foremost, caring for the well-being of a group, of a society. It is understanding that economic and social development need to go hand in hand. Therefore, every cooperative has a social commitment to helping its community grow. We will continue to be persistent and work towards economic and social transformation and effectiveness. Together we are stronger”, highlights the president, Wardes Lemos.” Engagement in social responsibility actions is something that happens permanently in cooperatives and is very evident during C-Day. This year, due to all the difficulties generated by the pandemic, efforts were focused on collecting food, which is essential to provide support to families experiencing difficulties. The result is yet another example of the transformative force of cooperativism, represented by the union of cooperatives and their members for the benefit of communities. Simple attitudes move the world! Cooperation Day benefits families in the Capital and interior Action to deliver diapers and food to the São João Bosco Asylum.12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS What if you could choose what to learn at school? What if there was a methodology that placed the child or adolescent at the center of the teaching-learning process? For 27 years, the A União Faz a Vida Program has promoted children's protagonism in the classroom, through a pedagogical proposal that stimulates students' curiosity and participation in the construction of knowledge. The Program is developed by the Sicredi System and multiplied in the Cooperatives' areas of activity, reaching out especially to children and adolescents in the public education network. In Sicredi Campo Grande's area of ​​activity, 7 schools in the cities of Bandeirantes and Terenos embraced the methodology, benefiting more than 1,300 students and 155 teachers. This year, PUFV arrived in Terenos, a city of 22 thousand inhabitants and around 30 km away from Campo Grande. According to Education Secretary Carla Diniz, the municipality is very happy with the arrival of the Program and with the partnership with Sicredi. “The Union makes Life Program is a door that opens to the future of education in Terenos, where we seek, through curiosity and cooperation between children and adolescents, the quality learning that so much we seek.” União Faz a Vida Program transforms the lives of children and adolescents The União Faz a Vida Program works through project methodology, making students stop playing the role of recipients of knowledge and become protagonists of the learning process. Through the “mobilizing question”, students are encouraged to ask questions, exercising the curiosity so common to children and adolescents. “The União Faz a Vida Program does not just change the perspective of the child or the teenager for teaching, but of the teacher who becomes a great maestro, leading his students to the search for knowledge and the best, in a light, dynamic, playful way”, points out Pedagogical Advisor Joecimara Miquilino Alves. The child breaks through the school walls, sees themselves as part of a learning community, being able to visit other spaces of knowledge and receive visitors who bring new experiences and history, contributing to a space for exchange. “We can see that the Education is the path to the development of our community. Children can participate in a more collaborative and egalitarian environment with more opportunities to develop and transform the environment in which they live”, says the Manager of Agência Bandeirantes, Robson Pereira da Silva, who has already experienced the Program, together with children and adolescents who are members of PUFV in the municipality. The Union Makes Life Program promotes Children's Day action in Bandeirantes.Educators members of the A Programa União Faz a Vida participate in an action to celebrate Teachers’ Day in Bandeirantes. 13 What is the União Faz a Vida Program The União Faz a Vida Program - PUFV was developed by the Sicredi System in 1995 to increase communities' knowledge about cooperativism and the nature of cooperative societies. And to this day it follows the motto that inspired its creation and its main objective: to promote cooperation and citizenship, through of cooperative education practices, contributing to the integral education of children and adolescents. The program is present in the North, South, Southeast and Central-West regions. And it has impressive numbers. There are more than 3 million children and adolescents, more than 150 thousand educators, more than 2,600 participating schools and more than 475 cities in 12 states in Brazil. In 2021, Fundação Sicredi released a study on the social impact of the “A União Faz a Vida” program. The work sought, through scientific methodology, to identify the Social Return on Investment (SROI) of the initiative carried out over 25 years ago with children and adolescents from public and private schools in different regions of Brazil. As main results, the study revealed that the impacts of the Program remain at the same intensity in the lives of participants for a period of five to seven years, and that they correspond to four times the investment made. That is, for every R$1.00 invested, R$4.07 in social impacts are generated. The initiative aims to promote principles of cooperation and citizenship among children and adolescents from Early Childhood, Elementary and High School schools in the communities where the cooperative financial institution operates, encouraging them to be protagonists who make collective decisions and build cooperative projects. “It is rewarding to transform the lives of children and adolescents through education. The program increases the interest and involvement of participants in the learning process, being able to promote a greater sense of citizenship and collectivity and a series of socio-emotional skills. We develop these young people so that they can promote positive impacts in their communities”, explains Wardes Lemos, president of Sicredi Campo Grande. Initial qualification of Educators of the A União Faz a Vida Program. Educators from Terenos participate in the initial qualification of the Program. 14 Report Annual 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS Following one of the principles of cooperativism, which is training, information and education, training for Core Coordinators was carried out, promoted by the Cooperative with the support of Sescoop/MS and the Instituto Superior de Administração e Economia do Mercosul (ISAE), which aimed to provide training subjects related to the area of ​​administration and management. This course is another opportunity offered to leaders, so that they can be more prepared and with more foundation on topics related to the universe of cooperativism and management. The proposed modules were: cooperative leadership, credit cooperatives, strategy, innovation, risk management and entrepreneurship. In total, 21 coordinators participated and it was done online. “For me, it was a great pleasure to participate in the Center Coordinator Development Program. It was of paramount importance in improving understanding of the system cooperative, here in our state and in our country. The learning will also be taken into my personal and business life. With the course, we can very calmly and effectively monitor the progress and development of our Cooperative.”, says João Pedro Santana Pereira, Center Coordinator at Sicredi Campo Grande MS. Every day the Social Framework of the Cooperative grows and it is necessary to maintain the principles of cooperativism, which is why there are Core Coordinators who are leaders of the Cooperative who represent a group of members. It is important to renew the Coordinators' speech, reaffirm the work that the Cooperative is already carrying out. Education is the only way to promote people’s development. The organization of the membership framework brings the member closer to the cooperative. But this member will only be close to the institution if he understands what cooperativism is, how it operates, how the cooperative works and the importance of their participation in decision-making processes. Core coordinators participate in training in digital format. Core Coordinators participate in training Topics related to the universe of cooperativism were addressed in the Core Coordinator Development Program.15 The Women's Committee is a program that has the educational purpose of promoting gender equity , empowering women so that they can participate in management at all levels of the Cooperative, through training, information and education, to lead, undertake and promote the sustainable development of the business model in communities The Sicredi Campo Grande Women's Committee was created at the beginning of 2019 with the representation of two associates from each agency, operating at the time. This committee is under the coordination of Councilor Matilde Lima de Paiva Arantes, which reflects the objective of its creation. “We are focused on developing new leaders for the community and that they can be potential candidates indicated for the Cooperative's Core Coordination and thus have more space in decision-making”, defines the coordinator. Women's Committee develops leadership in the Cooperative. action plan. In 2021, the Sicredi Campo Grande Women's Committee held a series of 12 Workshops for all of the Cooperative's employees. One of them was: “The impact positive impact of self-knowledge in my financial life”, taught by psychologists Daiane Stival and Ângela Marini, who highlighted that the event was an opportunity to instigate and promote self-knowledge, relationships, experiences, limiting beliefs and cultural aspects that interfere with financial organization at different levels. : personal, family and social in different organizations During Yellow September, psychologists Daiane Stival and Ângela Maria Marini addressed topics such as self-knowledge, resilience, cognitive flexibility, emotional skills for personal development. The Committee developed actions with members regarding specific issues in Pink October and Blue November. Members of the Sicredi Campo Grande Women's Committee16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS With financial education as one of the bases for generating a positive impact on society, Sicredi Campo Grande participated in the 8th edition of the National Finance Week Financial Education (ENEF Week), an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF), which was held between the 8th and 14th of November. Participation this year was guided by the theme “Together we design a more prosperous life”, the motto of the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program, which promoted two lives, serving more than 1600 people. With the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis, Sicredi is committed to an innovative program, bringing transformation to communities through awareness raising actions with various associated audiences and society as a whole. The program covers different audiences: Individuals, Legal Entities, Children and Adolescents. The topic is worked on using effective and validated approaches, supporting people to become aware of their behavior and decision-making patterns. “We believe that, with our strength, we can bring Financial Education to all our locations, supporting directly to our associates and local communities”, says the president, Wardes Lemos. Children and teenagers were also covered, two schools, one public, in which two lectures were held, with three third-year high school classes each day. And a particular one, which was two lectures on the same day, with four classes, from the fifth to the ninth year of Elementary School. In total, more than 120 children and teenagers were able to learn a little about financial education. The agencies also welcomed children, who were received in a playful way, with storytelling using the Turma da Mônica comic book 'Formas de Economizar', produced in partnership between Sicredi and Mauricio de Sousa Produções, to introduce tips on financial health and conscious consumption . The partnership with Mauricio de Sousa Produções, without a doubt, helps Sicredi to bring financial education, in a light and fun way, to parents and children across Brazil. Per through a collection of comic books and videos with stories from Turma da Mônica, teaching the origin of money, the family budget and how cash and installment purchases work, enabling them to learn how to have a more sustainable financial life.Enef Financial Education Week Financial education carried out in the Som e Vida project. Realization of Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis with children at the Chácara Cachoeira Agency.17 Development of the BI Planning area and CSC (Service Center shared) The financial market is highly competitive and generates the need to always be constantly learning and implementing new technologies and new processes, which is essential for the sustainability of the Cooperative. Our strategic decisions are based on the Systemic Strategic Map, which may highlight some of Sicredi's strategic priorities: having a wide range of products and services; bring the best experience to members; be excellent in the use of data and improve operational and business efficiency. Based on this context and guidelines, the Executive Board in 2021 created and strengthened, through investments in trained employees, in the qualification and recognition of their talents and expertise. “The Business Intelligence (BI) area in 2021 was systemically recognized, sharing cases developed internally, in an online meeting for all employees who use BI in all Sicredi cooperatives nationally - and in a second moment the invitation to present the Systematicity Case, a tool developed for daily performance management aimed at achieving strategic objectives and sustainable results for the cooperative”, says Denis Hideyoshi Kawakami, Planning / BI and CSC Manager. Also in 2021, the Shared Services Centralization area was created with the entry of employees qualified with SUSEP to increase the quality and technical capacity of the cooperative, always emphasizing the continuous evolution of the qualified relationship to the satisfaction of our members. Currently the area has 6 employees who seek daily to reinforce the relationship and trust with our associates by offering services and specialized support to agencies and associates on the Corporate Cash Flow, Consortium and Insurance fronts. Our business model is focused on our associates and for the same purpose, that through our actions we can build a more prosperous society together. “The work developed together with the Cooperative is sensational and Sicredi Campo Grande MS is an example of what we designed in 2019, when we began to restructure the area and BI. The Cooperative is a success story for us and for other cooperatives, as it is a model that we believe in. Sicre's BI team - di Campo Grande MS is an extension of ours, here at CAS, reducing calls and helping us to improve and focus on what really matters, as you understand the problems and help us put together solutions”, praises Adriano Santos da Silva, Manager of Financial Planning and BI of the Sicredi Confederation. BI and CSC Planning Team (Shared Services Center)18 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS Having an economic reserve is essential, even more so in times of crisis as we are living. Therefore, Sicredi promotes actions that encourage the habit of saving, as the member's well-being and financial health are essential for the Cooperative. In April 2021, the “Save with Sicredi” promotion was launched, which ended in October. The campaign was carried out in partnership with Sicredi União MS/TO and Oeste da Bahia and in total, 424 prizes were drawn, including: 174 55-inch 4K televisions; 240 Caloi 21-speed bicycles; 5 video games PlayStation 5 and 5 savings worth R$50,000 each, which correspond to more than R$1.5 million. More than 32 thousand people were awarded with the Rasgadinhas, which gave away instant prizes, such as an AirFryer electric fryer, a JBL speaker, a Stanley glass and gourd, a Britânia mixer, a Sicredi thermal bag, a Sicredi card holder and an opening keychain. In addition to all these prizes, there was also a savings draw worth R$50,000. Associate Maurício Silva Meaurio França, of just 2 years, from Agência Jardim dos Estados in Campo Grande and associate Manilda Cunha Rosa, from Agência de Corguinho were awarded. “It is very important to encourage saving money from an early age, which is why we decided to open a savings account for our son. Being honored motivates us even more”, says Marcelo, father of little Maurício, aged 2, with enthusiasm. And Dona Manilda was thrilled Campaign encourages the act of saving and even gives prizes when receiving this great prize. More than one credit cooperative, Sicredi is a great supporter of its members and therefore continually carries out actions that bring benefits to those who invest in the institution. The campaign aimed to encourage members and savers to learn or reinforce the habit of saving, thus being able to achieve goals, make dreams come true and also be rewarded for their discipline and financial organization. Savings have existed in Brazil for over 160 years and continue to be a good alternative for who wants to start investing, since it is a product whose operation is simple, profitability is guaranteed, the money invested is available for immediate redemption and offers the security of a product regulated by the Central Bank, exempt from going to PF. Anyone who invests in savings in a credit cooperative still has the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop), with coverage of up to R$250,000 per CPF or CNPJ. Not to mention that, when you invest in savings with Sicredi, you are collaborating with local development, as the money invested returns in the form of credit to your region and can even generate extra income when distributing the results of your cooperative. Contemplated in the rasdinhas awardsManilda Cunha Rosa Marcelo Meaurio França19 The 5th principle of cooperativism deals with education, training and information, which is why the Cooperative has initiatives that promote knowledge. One of them is the Training Program Crescer, which aims to bring knowledge about cooperativism to all audiences that interact with the business, both employees and associates. “This program is in alignment with cooperative principles as it brings knowledge to our members to make the best use of their Cooperative. Furthermore, it improves associate relationships and qualifies their participation here at Sicredi Campo Grande”, highlights the president, Wardes Lemos. To the Crescer training takes place in person and in 2021 it was attended by more than 900 members. Sicredi Campo Grande made Christmas happier for the elderly and children. One of the initiatives was the “Adopt an Elderly” Campaign, which aimed to give gifts to the elderly at SIRPHA - Lar do Idoso. The campaign was promoted among employees and associates who accessed the gift list. The Cooperative held a recreational afternoon with the elderly, with snacks and Santa Claus for the delivery of more than 60 gifts. Natália Grabowki, Social Worker at SIRPHA, highlighted how important the initiative was. This year was very significant, as the elderly were in a long period of isolation and receiving gifts on that date is very important, having the letter answered by Santa Claus is one of the few dates that they are remembered for”, says the social worker. SIRPHA is a Long-Term Institution for the Elderly (ILPI), founded in 05 of More than 900 associates participate in the Crescer Program The strength of cooperativism materializes in helping others at Christmas Christmas Action brings gifts to the elderly at SIRPHA - Home for the Elderly. In-person training at the Chácara Cachoeira Agency Delivery of the Crescer Program certificate in February 1967, destined for the collective home of 80 elderly people, of both sexes, independent or with some degree of disability dependency, which receive comprehensive health and well-being care, with a view to promotion, protection and prevention, ensuring the quality of life of those receiving care. The same recreational afternoon took place at Projeto Som e Vida, which serves children and teenagers aged 3 to 18 with free ballet and music classes. In total, 130 children participated in the end-of-year party and received gifts through the adoption of cards, sponsored by associates, collaborators and members of the Committee Mulher.20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS In October, Sicredi Campo Grande completed 23 years of operation and is a cooperative financial institution committed to economic and social transformation, boosting people and promoting collective development. Over the years, the Cooperative has been solidifying itself in the regional financial scenario and joining forces with those who are most important: its members. A cooperative emerges from a collective need and the union of people with the aim of joining forces to achieve common goals that benefit everyone. And so, on October 29, 1998, the history of Sicredi Campo Grande began. A dream of 25 founding partners who undertook to implement a rural credit cooperative society. 23 years of achievements The Cooperative grew and an important milestone was in 2012 with the Free Admission of Sicredi Campo Grande, starting to serve members of all segments through financial assistance to promote activities and growth in the region where it operates. Several agencies were opened over the years, in 2019 Sicredi Campo Grande had a 19.3% growth in the number of members, launched the Women's Committee, with the aim of increasing the participation of female members by developing actions based on the purpose, mission and Sicredi values. “Our cooperative continues to grow and many achievements lie ahead come over. Our work is based on transparency in management and the pursuit of results for members”, highlights the president, Wardes Lemos. 04CHECK OUT THE CELEBRATION OF THE COOPERATIVE'S ANNIVERSARY IN OUR BRANCHES 21 To reinforce the importance of small entrepreneurs and cooperativism as engines of the Brazilian economy, Sicredi raises the banner of cooperation in a movement to engage people in favor of the economy of its region, with the “I Cooperate with the Local Economy” campaign. Through communication initiatives and the application of a seal that highlights companies and consumers engaged in the cause, Sicredi seeks to stimulate consumption and local economic development – ​​which has been linked to the institution's purpose since its foundation in 1902. The campaign positively impacted different audiences, from small traders and rural producers, so that they feel supported by the campaign; Sicredi members and who contribute to the dissemination of messages and take advantage of business opportunities that may arise with it; and consumers, so that they become aware of their role in driving the economy of their regions through their consumption behavior. The initiative also invited entities and the media to engage and strengthen the spread of the movementI cooperate with the Local Economy supports local entrepreneurs In 2021, Sicredi Campo Grande took the action to Terenos, Ribas do Rio Pardo, Camapuã, Rochedo, Corguinho, Bandeirantes and Campo Grande in the Agência Capital Morena region. “This is the credit union’s biggest differentiator: it develops tools to bring improvements to the member’s business, and consequently to the community where it operates. Sicredi wants to grow together with people and be a partner at all times”, says Wardes Lemos, president of Sicredi Campo Grande. A hotsite was also created to serve as a source of information about the initiative and a support tool to local entrepreneurs. The space provides video content and e-books with tips on how to work with businesses in digital media and a platform for embodying digital promotional pieces, as well as access to other tools that can help manage the enterprise. Visit:economylocalsicredi. com.br/EU COOPERATE WITH THE LOCAL ECONOMY Actions carried out in Terenos and corguinho. Actions carried out in Campo Grande, Camapuã and Ribas do Rio Pardo. 22 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Campo Grande MS