Classification of information: Internal Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT DO VALE DO SÃO FRANCISCO – SICREDI VALE DO SÃO FRANCISCO Address: Rua Presidente Dutra, 61, Centro, Petrolina – PE. CEP: 56.304 -230. CNPJ: 04.237.413/0001 -45 NIRE: 26.4.0001491 -4 ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING DIGITAL MEETING - IN/DREI Nº 79/20 20 CALL NOTICE The President of the Board of Directors Antônio Vinícius Ramalho Leite of the Vale do Credit Cooperative San Francisco – Sicredi Vale of São Francisco, using the powers conferred on it by the Bylaws, summons the members, who on this date number 4,430 (four thousand, four hundred and thirty), able to vote, to meet at an Ordinary General Assembly - A BE HELD DIGITALLY - on July 29, 2020, at 8:00 am, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 9:00 am, with the presence of half plus one of the associates, on a second convocation; at 10:00 am, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on a third call, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: 1. Presentation of the accounts of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions, from the Fiscal Council and Independent Audit, for the year 2019 (two thousand and nineteen), comprising: a) Management Report; b) General Balance Sheet; c) Financial Statements; 2. Method of distribution and disposal of leftovers fiscal year 2019; 3. Election of members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board; 4. Setting the value of fees, bonuses, benefits, daily allowances and attendance cards for members of the Board of Directors, Executive Board and Fiscal Council; 5. Work plan for 2020. Members interested in participating in the meeting must register in advance on the website www.sicredi.com.br/coop/valedosaofrancisco, by 7:30 am on the day July 29, 2020, observing the guidelines available at the same email address, for the purposes of identification and receiving the link to access the virtual room. When carrying out prior registration, members interested in participating in the Assembly must have the following information and/or documents: full name; agency Number; account number; CPF or CNPJ number; and digital copy of personal document with photo, which must be sent through the system pre-registration for the conference. The access link to the virtual Assembly room will be sent exclusively to the email address provided when the member registers in advance. Members who have registered in advance and who access the virtual meeting room at the time of the meeting will be able to express themselves in writing, via chat, or verbally, thus ensuring their full participation in the meeting. Voting will be held through a digital system made available during the Assembly, with exceptions being permitted, in the event of unavailability of the tool or impossibility of use by the member, in writing, via chat, or verbally. Classification of information: Internal Use The Meeting will be recorded electronically and may be requested by regulatory authorities or members, upon formal request. Petrolina (PE), June 23, 2020. Antônio Vinícius Ramalho Leite Chairman of the Board of Directors Note: Given the national scenario, as a result of the global pandemic caused by COVID-19, we will hold the Ordinary General Meeting, exceptionally, via digital means.