VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO CREDIT COOPERATIVE SICREDI VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO Rua Presidente Dutra, n° 61, Centro, Petrolina — PE; CEP: 56.304-230 CNPJ/MF 04.237413/0001-45 NIRE — 26.4.0001491—4 CALL NOTICE ) The President of the Board of Directors of COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO DO VALE D0 SAO FANCISCO — SICREDI VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO, with headquarters at Rua Presidente Dutra, n° 61; Center; Petrolina/PE; CEP: 56304-230, registered with the CNPJ under number 04.237413/0001-45, using the powers conferred on it by the Cooperative's Social Statute, invites its MEMBERS, who on this date total 8,251 (eight thousand, two hundred and fifty-one ), in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet in an Extraordinary and Ordinary General Assembly, to be held digitally, on April 25, 2023, at 5:00 pm, with the presence of 2/3 ( two-thirds) of the associates, on first call; the 6:00 pm, with the presence of half plus one of the associates, on second call; at 7:00 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. //\ Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform* accessed via the website wwwsicredi com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: At EGM: 1) Proposal for a broad reform of the Company's Bylaws Cooperative, adapting to the systemic model, with the implementation of the Sicredi Pertencer program; 2) Approval and consolidation of the Bylaws; 3) Approval of the Sicredi Pertencer program regulations; 4) Approval of the current model of the Electoral Code; 5) Ratification of the Administrators' Succession Policy, considering the provisions of art. 5th, c/c art.4th, § 2° of CMN Resolution 4,878/2020 (revision every 5 years); 6) Approval of the Directors' Remuneration Policy, in accordance with Art.5, §7 of the LC 198; 7) Termination of the Social Fund. IN AUG: 1) Presentation of the accounts of the administration bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Fiscal Council and Independent Audit, for the financial year 2022 (two thousand and twenty-five dollars), comprising: a) Management Report; b) General Balance Sheet; c) Accounting Statements; 2) Method of distribution and allocation of surpluses from the 2022 financial year; Classification of information Internal use 3) Distribution and allocation of accumulated surpluses from the years 2019, 2020 and 2021; 4) Election of members of the Supervisory Board; 5) Establishment of fees, benefits, Christmas bonuses, daily allowances, private pension and variable remuneration of the members of the executive board, the president and vice-president of the board of directors; and the attendance records of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board; 6) Work plan for Financial Year 2023; 7) Other matters of a non-deliberative nature. Documents relating to the agenda and more information Details on registration and use of the assembly participation tool will be available to members on the website wwwsicredicom.br/valedosaofrancisco and at the cooperative's headquarters. To participate in the digital assembly, the following steps must be followed: 1. The member must verify their telephone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or by contacting your cooperative; 2. Through the link wwwsicredicom.br/assembleiadigital, the member You must register by creating a password; 3. On the day and time of the assembly, the member must access the link wvwi/.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital again, enter their CPF and registered password, click on their cooperative's event and will be able to participate in discussions and votes of the items on the agenda; To members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in the form of the previous paragraph, the right to make a written statement will be guaranteed, addressed to the board of directors, via chat, thus safeguarding your full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, and exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool, voting will be in writing via chat. The Assembly will be held exclusively in the format digital, based on art. 43-A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN-DREI No. 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. Petrolina — PE, May 14, 2023. 'x' \ Vmicl Antﬁ io us amalho Leite 4 President of the Board of Directors Classification of information Internal Use *| instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: 05 members must access the tool through the site www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, on any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time your entry will be admitted in the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time. Classification of information Internal use