CREDIT COOPERATIVE D0 VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO — SICREDI VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO Address Rua Presidente Dutra, 61, center, Petrolina — PE. CEP: 56304-230. CNPJ: 04.237.413/0001-45 NIRE: 26.4.0001491—4 CALL NOTICE (;Ao _ DIGITAL EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY (IN-DREI no. 81/2020 and Law 5764171 article 43-A) The President of the Board of Directors of COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO DO VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO — SICREDI VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO, with headquarters at Rua Presidente Dutra, 61, 'center, Petrolina - PE, registered with the CNPJ under no. 04.237413/0001-45, using the powers conferred on it by the Cooperative's Social Statute, summons its MEMBERS, who on this date total 6,079 (six thousand and seventy-nine), in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet at an Extraordinary General Assembly, to be held digitally, on December 1, 2021, at 5 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 6pm, with the presence of half plus one of the associates, on second call; at 7 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform accessed through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: 1) Proposal for broad reform of the Cooperative's Bylaws; 2) Approval of the consolidation of the Bylaws; 3) Assessment and deliberation on the creation of the Social Fund; 4) Assessment of the Expansion and Development Reserve Regulation. Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the assembly participation tool will be available to members on the website wvvw.sicredi.com.br/valedosaofrancisco and at the cooperative's headquarters. To participate in the digital meeting, the following steps must be followed: 1. The member must verify his or her social security number. telephone and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or by contacting your cooperative; 2. Through the link wvvw.sicredicom.br/assembleiadigital, the member must register by creating a password; 3. On the day and time of the assembly, the member must access the link vvww.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital again, enter their CPF and registered password, click on their cooperative's event and will be able to participate in discussions and votes on items in the order of day; Classification of information Internal use Members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of the meeting, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, will be guaranteed the right to make a written statement, addressed to the board director, via chat, thus safeguarding their full participation under the terms of DREl Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool. The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43—A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN-DREI No. 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members. upon formal request. Petrolina - PE November 4, 2021. l/<1»/3‘ i Antonio Vinicius Ramalho Leite President of the Board of Directors *lnstru(;6es for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, registering and identifying themselves with their CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow to members who identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time. Classification of information Internal Use