Digital assembly: access tutorial Participating in the digital assembly is very easy: just follow this tutorial. Before we start, a tip: the process is simpler if your registration is updated with Sicredi. If you have recently changed your phone or email, first update your registration using our customer service channels or contact your agency. So, are you ready to be a protagonist in your region? Let's start! type it in your browser the address: sicredi.c om.br /assembleiasClick on the “Access assemblies” button, in the top right corner or on the links throughout the page. Now is the time to register. If this is your first time accessing the Assemblies platform, click on “I want to register”. I already have a registration Enter your CPF in the top field. And, just below, choose to identify yourself with your email or cell phone. Click on the “Register” button. You will r receive a token code via email or registered cell phone; use this even number to validate your registration. Click on the “Confirm registration” button. Now that you've validated your token, it's time to choose a password. For more security, your password must be 8 characters long, containing letters (upper and lower case) and numbers. After typing the password in the top field, confirm it in the field below and click “Finish ” . If your phone or email is not updated in the Sicredi registration, it will be necessary to confirm some information before choosing a password. There are three simple questions. After conﬁrmation, register your password and click “Finish”. And ready! Now you are registered and can access your assembly. Log in to the platform using your CPF number and entering the password you created. If you have forgotten your password, click on forgot my password and follow the process to register it again. Now, in addition to the telephone and email, you can request the token via the Sicredi mobile application if you have one. To do this, simply select the "Push Notification" option that will appear on your cell phone screen, the code number to enter on the platform. From there, just create the password. Now you see the assemblies of your cooperative. Check the date and time of the event and participate! It's up to you to decide and transform. Thank you for being part of the 2023 Assemblies.