Classification of Information – [Classification] Classification of information: Internal Use Regulation – Belonging Responsible Wellington José da Silva Position Executive Director Cooperative Development Area Replaces and revokes N/A Regional Coverage Effective Period From: 04/28/202 2 Until: Undetermined Regulation – Belong Information Classification – [Classification] Page 2 of 10 Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This Regulation governs the procedures that govern the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management and development process of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - Sistema de Crédito Cooperativo, hereinafter simply called “cooperatives” or “cooperative”. Single paragraph. In addition to the provisions of the caput, the Program also aims to provide instruments for cooperatives in order to expand the participation of members in matters related to management and development, through centers. Art. 2 The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 3 The provisions contained in this Regulation regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after the adaptation of the cooperative's bylaws, contemplating this form of participation, in accordance with current regulations, and apply to cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 1 It is optional for cooperatives that serve specific segments and/or categories to adopt this form of member participation as long as they have the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 2 For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will be called nucleus coordinator in these Regulations. CHAPTER II OF CORE Art. 4 The group of members of the cooperative is considered a nucleus, taking into account the following premises: Regulation – Belonging Classification of Information – [Classification] Page 3 of 10 Classification of information: Internal Use I - the cooperative will define the number of members per nucleus, observing the nucleus limit established in the Bylaws, through registration in the minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. The number of members per nucleus does not may be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II - after this definition, the number of members grouped in groups cannot exceed a variation of 50% (fifty percent) more or less; III - the cooperative must have at least 11 (eleven) members, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - to guarantee the right to vote for members of newly opened agencies or those who have not reached the number defined in section I of this article, the Board of Directors will define the form of participation of these members in the centers; V - the cooperative will define the number of nuclei grouped in the same nucleus assembly, preferably not exceeding 5 (five), in the case of in-person assemblies. § 1 When the number of core members exceeds a variation of 50% (fifty percent), more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in section I of this article. § 2 When the number of centers in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote the statutory change. CHAPTER III CORE MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES Art. 5 A meeting is considered to be a meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members or coordinators to discuss matters of specific interest to the membership, the group or those defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 6 An event held with members in person, semi-in-person or digitally with the aim of deliberating on: Regulation – Belonging Information Classification – [Classification] Page 4 of 10 Information Classification: Internal Use is considered a core assembly. I - the election and dismissal of the nucleus coordinator, effective and substitutes; II - the matters of the general assembly of the cooperative, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 2 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 1 The call for core assemblies, containing the date, time, place and/or form of their holding and matters to be resolved, will be made through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably at least 10 (ten ) days. § 2 The call will be made by the President or Vice-president of the Board of Directors. § 3 In the event that the call of the general assembly of delegates being held by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or after a request not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, automatically core assemblies must be called. § 4 If the provisions of the previous paragraph occur, at least 3 (three) counselors or associates must sign the notice. § 5 Regardless of the form of implementation, it will be considered The nucleus assembly is valid when, at the time of its opening, it was attended by at least 10 (ten) members per nucleus. § 6 If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per nucleus, there must be a new call in accordance with § 1 of this article. If there is not enough time to call it, the core vote will not be considered at the general meeting. §7 The matters of the core assemblies will be considered approved by a simple majority of votes present, except for statutory reform, when 2/3 of the votes of those present will be required. §8° In the event of a tie in the core vote, the tiebreaker will be exercised by the core coordinator. If absent, he will break the tie by expressing his vote at the general meeting. §9° When holding core assemblies in a blended or digital format, a channel for interaction with the cooperative will be made available. Regulation – Belong Information Classification – [Classification] Page 5 of 10 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 7 In addition to the specificities described in articles 5 and 6, core meetings and assemblies are recognized spaces for qualified participation by members with questions, demonstrations and strategic contributions, as well as learning, formation of cooperative identity and belonging. Single paragraph. The actions structured throughout the year will be considered an integral part of the assembly movement annual when attendance is duly recorded in the Pertencer Program tool, and its activities and results are included in the minutes for the respective treatment. CHAPTER IV THE CORE COORDINATOR Art. 8 The nucleus coordinator is the individual member elected at a nucleus assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and representing the members at general assemblies, when the cooperative adopts this mode lity. Art. 9 To apply and carry out the activities of nucleus coordinator, the applicant must: I - be certified in the Crescer Program; II - make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a political party position or function upon election, or during the term of office, in compliance with the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws; IV - not respond, due to pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, in addition to not having a negative record in any database, external or within the cooperative itself, as well as having promoted or being promoting, as a party or attorney-in-fact, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi; V - not be an employee of the cooperative or have been dismissed from the cooperative for just cause; and Regulation – Belonging Classification of Information – [Classification] Page 6 of 10 Classification of information: Internal Use VI - not be a former advisor or ex-director who is subject to internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or who , for the same reasons, has been removed from office or resigned from the position for which he was elected. Art. 10. The duties of the nucleus coordinator will be considered: I – when invited by the Board of Directors, participate in activities suggested by agencies and get involved with the cooperative’s social projects; II - participate in meetings of core coordinators, core meetings and core assembly; III - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - participate, when invited by the President or Board Member, in events of interest to the cooperative; and V - participate in coordinator training in the cooperative, spreading cooperativism. Single paragraph. Member data cannot be provided by the cooperative to the nucleus coordinator, due to the confidentiality of information. Art. 11. In addition to the matters set out in the sections of art. 5th of these Regulations, the following will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of core coordinators: I - preparation of core assemblies that precede the general assemblies; II - issues related to the development of the cooperative; III - analysis of the economic and financial situation of the cooperative; IV - others of interest to the cooperative's administration. CHAPTER V THE ELECTION PROCESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 12. The election of nucleus coordinators will take place at a nucleus assembly in good time before the general assembly of the cooperative, and the candidate must Regulation – Belong Information Classification – [Classification] Page 7 of 10 Information classification: Internal use carry out registration, on a specific form provided by the cooperative, within the deadline established when convening the core assembly. Single paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with the requirements for the role and notify the candidate. Art. 13. The term of office of core coordinators will comply with the term set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 14. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 15. The following will be considered as elected nucleus coordinators: I - the member with the most votes and the second most voted by the nucleus will respectively be considered effective coordinator and substitute coordinator, and so on according to the greater number of substitutes; II - the members with the highest number of votes, when presented as candidates jointly, effective and substitute(s), indicating the order of replacement; III - the members presented as the only candidates, effective and alternate(s), acclaimed by the Core Assembly. § 1 In any of the hypotheses set out in items I and II of this article, the replacement order must be recorded in the election minutes. § 2 In the event of a tie in voting, the member who will perform the functions of effective nucleus coordinator will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, the same rule being valid for substitutes. Art. 16. The investiture of nucleus coordinators will occur automatically after the publication of the election result. Art. 17. In the event of a vacancy in the effective core coordinator, the first substitute will assume the role. If there are no substitutes to take over, the core members will elect new core coordinators in accordance with these Regulations, effective and alternate(s), to fulfill the remainder of the term. Regulation – Belonging Classification of Information – [Classification] Page 8 of 10 Classification of information: Internal Use § 1º Constitute hypotheses of vacancy of core coordinators: I - loss of membership status; II - failure to attend, without justification, the general meeting of the cooperative, at the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, resignation and dismissal; IV - health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in their duties; V - as a party or attorney-in-fact, promote legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of their own mandate; VI - no longer meets the conditions for the role of nucleus coordinator, in accordance with these Regulations; VII - be elected a member of the Board of Directors or Supervisory Board of the cooperative, or even a director; VIII - hold a position on corporate bodies in a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; IX – the transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; and X - become an employee of another cooperative in the Sicredi or financial institution. § 2 In the event that the core coordinator is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request for resignation within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy. of the position. For the purposes of this Regulation, party political position is understood to be that set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. § 3º The dismissal of the nucleus coordinator will occur by deliberation of members in core assembly. Other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. CHAPTER VI REPRESENTATIVENESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Regulations – Belonging Classification of Information – [Classification] Page 9 of 10 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 18. Effective nucleus coordinators represent members at general assemblies of the cooperative and, in the impossibility of attendance of these, their substitutes. § 1 Whenever the effective nucleus coordinator is present at the general meeting, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. § 2 As soon as he becomes aware of the impossibility of attending the general meeting or needs to be absent when it has already started, the effective core coordinator must communicate the fact to his deputy and also to the President of the Board of Directors or the President of the Assembly to the its replacement. § 3 If it is impossible for the core coordinator, effective and alternate(s), to participate in the general assembly, the President of the assembly will ask the secretary or another member, who will be the representative for the act, to present the vote, reading the result of the vote of the respective core, in order to be computed at the general assembly, restrictively to those matters that were previously considered at the Core Assembly. § 4 According to system provided for in § 2 of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the nucleus coordinator's vote will be linked to the decisions of the nucleus he represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the nucleus assembly. § 5 The absence of the coordinator at the general assembly will be informed by the cooperative to the respective nucleus at the first nucleus assembly that takes place. CHAPTER VII FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 19. The nucleus coordinator will not receive any type of remuneration, except for the reimbursement of their expenses for carrying out the function, which must be decided by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 20. Meetings and core assemblies held by the cooperative must be registered in advance in the Pertencer Program management tool. Regulation – Belonging Classification of Information – [Classification] Page 10 of 10 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 21. A cooperative beginning its activity or recently integrated into the System will join this Belonging Program after evaluation and recommendation from the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. This Belonging Regulation was approved at the General Assembly of Sicredi Vale do São Francisco held on 25.04.2023.