2022 03 - Your Cooperative 04 - Message from the CAD President 05 - Message from the Executive Board 06 - The year 20 22 07 - Our C ooperative 09 - Highlights 20 22 12 - The coop in numbers 13 - ResultsPRESENT ACTION SICREDIA Operating for over 20 years in the São Francisco Valley Region, we are an institution made up of people for people, united around the same objective. We believe that we can contribute to the development of a more prosperous society through products and financial services, in a fairer, simpler and closer way. Financial services focused on people With more than 300 products and services, we support our associates. In our operating model, the resources raised are reinvested in the region. Thus, we positively impact the community, stimulating income generation and sustainable growth. Our associates are the true owners of the business, with the right to participate in the results and decisions of the cooperatives through means of voting. Solidity and security Our ﬁnancial indicators have shown consistently positive results. We are regulated by the Central Bank of Brazil and have the same security mechanisms as other conventional financial institutions. We have a series of instruments that guarantee security and reliability for our associates' investments. Working towards a more prosperous society Sustainability is one of the main pillars of the operating model This is why we are signatories to the UN Global Compact. Studies show that the performance of a credit union generates a positive impact on factors such as GDP, job creation and income. They also show that credit cooperatives have a greater capacity to open branches in municipalities with fewer inhabitants and lower GDP, when compared to traditional banks, promoting greater access for the population to financial solutions. In this report we show our actions during the year 2022. Your cooperation was essential for this. Good reading! Edis Matsumo to - Vice-PresidentReport 20 22 - Your cooperative Marco Antônio Gomes Benedyto Sávio - Director of OperationsMessage from the President and Vice-President of CADReport 20 22 - Today we are on another level, we are part of a robust system, if approaching 300 billion total assets, extremely professional and safe, in addition to sharing a unique purpose - sincere interest for people and the fight for a more prosperous society. We are talking about the Sicredi system, which is increasingly innovative, effective and committed to the well-being and full satisfaction of its members. After the bold changes we made in governance and management, today we are focused on training and training an excellent, engaged team that shares the same culture, vision and mission as our company, so that we can execute all our growth and development strategy, in pursuit of our great short-term project - half a billion total assets at the end of 2025, and in the long term - greater market share in the cities where we operate, always attracting and keeping more and more members sa done. Recent deliveries are relevant, such as the beautiful Integração agency, the expansion of the Senhor do Bonfim agency and the Jacobina agency, with the possibility of starting our operation in Irecê this year, in addition to the creation of general managers of agency and the creation of the professional credit cycle, fundamental to leveraging our credit portfolio. We had a challenging year, marked by a high Selic rate and its effects, a spike in defaults that lasts to this day and many uncertainties in politics and the economy, which impacted our results, due to the provisioning of a large part of our revenues due to the high credit provision, but even so, we generate a lot of revenues with our operation, which gives us It also allows for a modest distribution of leftovers. With intense investment in the company and in the restructuring of agencies, we are ready for increasingly greater results. Sicredi is ours, it belongs to our land, it generates and distributes wealth that stays here and helps drive our local economy. Let's contribute to its growth, which is our Edis Matsumoto, Vice-President and Antônio Vinícius Ramalhor Leite, President of CADcrescimento. We are very grateful to God, to our employees, managers and advisors and especially you, associates, who greatly honor us with your choice to be part of this wonderful system, Sicredi. Big hug to everyone!Message from the Executive Board Report 20 22 - 5 Dear Associates, We are experiencing a very challenging year in 2022. It was a year in which, with the large increase in the Selic rate, we experienced an outbreak of defaults that obliges us to provision more than R$5 million for debtors doubtful, associated with the increase in the amount referring to interest on capital, which grew from R$1.2 million paid in December 2021 to almost R$4 million in December 2022. But we did it. We focus on supporting our associates in the necessary negotiations to help them get through this moment, as well as reinforcing protective measures to migrate credit risk. Even so, we presented very good growth in our total capital, which reached R$ 218 million in December 2021 to R$264 million in December 2022, showing growth of 21%. Credit operations showed lower growth as a reﬂection of risk aversion due to the context, going from a balance of R$125 million in December 2021 to R$140 million in December 2022, presenting a growth of 12% in the year. Highlight for the deposit portfolio which went from R$163 million in December 2021 to R$204 million in December 2022, presenting a growth of 25%. Even with the context of default and uncertainty, we met our schedule for opening new agencies and expanded our network with two more new offices: A second in Petrolina, in Integração, and the other in Jacobina in Bahia. Our workforce increased from 53 to 61, with the growth of our network. Our result closed at R$ 3.7 million, which was used to pay interest on capital, as a reflection of the record provision of R$ 5 millions. We envision a much better year 2023, without the harmful effects of the pandemic, elections and default. Another relevant fact is that we decided to enter into Agribusiness operations, as a result of which we have already obtained authorization from the Central Bank and we will begin operations in the second half of 2023. It is in our strategic planning to open another branch, this in Irecê, Bahia, which will begin in the second semester. We believe in a recovery of economy, reducing inflationary pressure and interest rates and the consequent improvement in the business environment to return to greater exposure. Finally, we would like to thank our associates, collaborators and community for their support, dedication and participation.Benedyto Silva, Director of Operations and Albérico Pena, Executive Director Sicredi Vale do São F ranciscoThe year 2022 In 2022 we came close to mark of 8 thousand members who decided that it is possible to have an alternative finance more cooperation. We opened two new agencies, the Integração agency in the first half of the year and the Jacobina agency, in November. This last one determines an important milestone in our advance of expansion in the north and Bahia. As for our sectoral organization, we implemented the process sector, which aims to meet growth demand in a planned and organized way. We also implemented the investment sector, which aims to meet new needs and market desires and guarantee products, services and a close and consultative relationship with our associates, in addition to seeking to ensure good liquidity for the institution so that we can continue to expand the offer of credit to individuals, legal entities and agribusiness. Our number followed me, growing synchronously with our numbers. We seek to invest in the training and growth of employees. The MBA in Credit Cooperation Management, in partnership with SESCOOP, is in full swing and will have its The first class will be completed in 2023. We invest heavily in actions to encourage the local community. Sports events, corporate education and social actions were supported, such as Day C, which took equipment to the Petrolina Cancer Hospital, which was able to recover several beds to serve society. We also implemented the Women's Committee, which develops and supports female empowerment actions and prepares women to seek the job market and leadership positions in the community. Thus, Sicr edi V ale do São Fr ancisco continues to grow in numbers and participation in the ﬁnancial market and fulfilling its purpose of building, together with its members, a more prosperous society. and Praça do Cooper activismassociates More than 265 millionMore than 7,9 thousand6 More than 43 million More than 140 millionReport 20 22 - Our C ooperative06 0406Our C ooperativeReport 20 22 - Highlights 2022 Women's Committee We launched on the 8th of March the Sicr edi Vale do São Francisco Women's Committee. The objective of this program is to promote gender equity, empowerment and training of women so that they can increasingly assume new roles of leadership and leadership in Cooperation and in the community. The professor at IF Sertão, Gislane Rocha, the lawyer Lígia Simões, the doctor Águida Mendes, surgeon at Catarina Brasil, the accountant and businesswoman Adriana Moa and the agronomist Russaika were sworn in. Lily. All associated with the institution and providing this service voluntarily. The Committee will carry out several actions in 2022, some of them even in partnership with organized civil society, such as Rotary, CEAM and CRELPS. Inspired by the 2030 agenda of the UN Global Compact and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals, the Sicredi Vale do São Francisc Women's Committee works directly in the areas of Quality Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality ( SDG 5) and Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8). Financial Education We reinforce our commitment to promoting financial education to the entire society. To this end, we held lectures with the municipal education network of Petrolina-PE with children aged 8 to 10, distributing exclusive Sicredi materials in partnership with Turma da Mônica. Report 20 22 - Catharina Br asil, Lígia Simões, Adriana Mota, Águida Mendes, Gislane Rocha, Russaika Lírio and Tanusia. Dhandar collaborators a, Eliana, Márcia and Daniela in a financial education action. Inauguration of the Integration Agency In April, we held the inauguration of the Integration Agency, an innovative unit with sustainability attributes, which combines an environment that encourages relationships and coexistence among associates. Our inauguration was attended by more than 300 members, who were able to visit the most spacious cooperative branch. The agency occupies an area of ​​649 square meters, and has wide structure with ATMs, human tellers, corporate and individual service area. In its first months of operation, the integration agency has already shown a great competitive and cooperative difference, presenting numbers that demonstrate to all associates and the community, the importance of its implementation, through cooperation . Want to know even more about this important event? Read the QR Code and watch the official video of the event. Cooperativism Square Putting intercooperation into practice, one of the seven cooperative principles, we inaugurated Praça do Cooper aviso, another successful partnership carried out with Unimed Vale do São Francisc o. After extensive renovation, purchase of new equipment and requalification of structures, the community has at its disposal an environment for coexistence and sports with comfort and safety. Access the QR Code below and check out how it turned out! Report 20 22 - Ag Inauguration Ceremony. Integration Cooperating with sport is cooperating with lifeIn 2022 we also arrived in Jacobina-B A! Our sixth service point marks our expansion across the northern and Bahia regions. The Jacobina agency is located in a privileged area of ​​the city, the famous Praça da Matriz and has 132 m². “Sicredi believes in Jacobina’s potential and arrives in this region with the security and benefits of the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil”, highlighted our president, Antônio Vinícius Ramalho Leite. The agency aims to further support the economic and social development of the region, in a sustainable way to build a more prosperous society together with the entire community. Access the QR Code below and see what the agency's opening night was like; Inauguration Day Agência Jacobina On the traditional ‘’C Day’’, Cooperation Day, we once again worked together with other cooperatives, from different fields of activity such as medical, agricultural and of credit to make a positive impact on society. In this action, carried out at the beginning of July, 18 air conditioning units were donated to Dom Tomás Hospital, which was able to recover beds that were idle due to the lack of equipment. Access the Qr Code above and see how this action went. Supporting sports is also contributing to a healthier and more prosperous life for the communities where we operate. In 2022 we will support several sports events from different modalities such as beach tennis tournaments, cycling tours, dancing and spinning. Read the code on the side and see how one of these actions went. Report 20 22 - Inauguration Ceremony of Ag. Jacobina Holding of the Viva PNZ event, in front of Ag. Integration Benedyto Sil va, Director of Operations and Albérico Pena, Executive Director Sicredi Vale do São F rancisco, during the holding of Day C 2022. Report 20 22 - Financial Year Result (in millions of R$) The coop in numbers 29,130.1 4.55.289125 10211434.2140 152 3.6265 4.8 thousand6.4 thousand 7.9 thousand 217 194Results Balance Sheet Statement of Surpluses or Losses The statement notes are an integral part of the financial statements. The aforementioned explanatory rules, the report issued by the External Audit and the Supervisory Board are available on the Cooperative's website Read the Qr Code at the top of the page and have access to all documents and reports. Report 20 22 - Ag. Integration Rua Maria Vilani Cavalcanti 22, Colônia Imperial Petrolina-PE Ag. Jacobina Praça da Matriz, 275 Centro Jacobina-BA Tel: (74)3621-Service Units