COOPER ACIVA DE CREDIT SICREDI REGION SUL DA BAHIA - SICREDI REGION SUL DA BAHIA, Address: Avenida Comendador Firmino Alves, 110 - Centro, CEP 45600 -185, Itabuna - BA, NIRE nº 29400018131 CNPJ: 97.489.280/0001 -85. EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING DIGITAL MEETING - IN/DREI Nº 79/20 20 CALL NOTICE The President of the Board of Directors of the Sicredi Credit Cooperative South Region of Bahia – Sicredi South Bahia Region, in the exercise of the powers assigned to him confers the Bylaws, summons the members, who on this date number 3,514 (Three thousand, five hundred and fourteen), able to vote, to meet at an Extraordinary General Assembly - TO BE HELD DIGITALLY - on the 8th May 2020, at 2 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 3 pm, with the presence of half plus one of the members, on second call; at 4 p.m., with the presence of, in the minimum, 10 (ten) members, on a third call, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: Reform of the Cooperative's Bylaws, comprising the following provisions: 1. Proposal to amend paragraph “b” of the article 1st, according to Bacen Official Letter No. 119100183; 2. Proposed new wording for article 8, which deals with member solidarity; 3. New wording proposal for article 48 and its paragraphs, which deals with the systemic solidarity; 4. Approval and consolidation of the Bylaws. Members interested in participating in the meeting must register in advance on the website: www.sicredi.com.br/coop/regiaosuldabahia, by 1:30 pm, on May 8, 2020, observing the guidelines available at the same email address, for the purposes identification and receipt of the access link to the virtual room. When pre-registering, the interested member to participate in the Assembly you must have the following information and/or documents: full name; agency Number; account number; CPF or CNPJ number; and digital copy of personal document with photo, which must be sent through the pre-registration system for the conference. The access link to the virtual Assembly room will be sent exclusively to the email address provided when the member registers in advance. The associates Those registered in advance and who access the virtual meeting room at the time of the meeting will be able to express themselves in writing via chat, or verbally, thus guaranteeing their full participation in the meeting. Voting will be carried out through a digital system made available during the Assembly, and exceptionally, in case of unavailability of the tool or impossibility of use by the member, voting in writing, via chat, or verbal. The Assembly will be recorded electronically and may be requested by regulatory authorities or members, upon formal request. Itabuna (BA), April 27, 2020. Silvio Porto de Oliveira Chairman of the Board of Directors. Note: Considering the national scenario, as a result of the global pandemic caused by COVID-19, we will hold the Extraordinary General Meeting, exceptionally, via digital means. Note: This General Assembly Extraordinary aims to adapt the Bylaws of our Cooperative so that we can have access to resources from BNDES or others raised via Banco Cooperativo Sicredi S/A and also those required by Deorf. EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING DIGITAL ASSEMBLY - IN/DREI No. 79/20 20. 1) Proposal to amend paragraph “b” of article 1, according to Bacen Official Letter No. 119100183; DE: b) Area of ​​action in the municipality headquarters and cities of: Almadina, Aurelino Leal, Buerarema, Camacan, Coaraci, Floresta Azu l, Ibicaraí, Ibirapitanga, Itajuipe, Itaju do Colônia, Itapé, Jacareci, Jussari, Lomanto Júnior, Maraú, Pau Brasil, Ubaitaba, Ilhéus, Uruçuca, Arataca, Canavieiras, Una, Ipiaú, Jequié and Itapetinga; TO: b) Area of ​​action in the main municipality and cities of: Almadina, Arataca, Aurelino Leal, Buerarema, Brumado, Camacan, Camamu, Canavieiras, Coaraci, Encruzilhada, Eunápolis, Feira de Santana, Floresta Azul, Guanambi, Ibicaraí, Ibirapitanga, Ilhéus, Ipiaú, Itacaré, Itajuipe, Itaju do Colônia, Itambé, Itapé, Itape tinga, Itarantim, Itororó, Jacareci, Jequié, Jussari, Lomanto Júnior, Macarani, Maiquinique, Maraú, Pau Brasil, Porto Seguro, Potiraguá, Ribeirão do Largo, Santo Antonio de Jesus, Teixeira de Freitas, Valença, Vitória da Conquista, Ubaitaba, Una and Uruçuca, 2) Proposed new wording for article 8, which deals with member solidarity; DE: Article 8 - The member is subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the shares of the capital he subscribed to, a responsibility that can only be invoked after being legally demanded from the cooperative, with this responsibility lasting, also, for those dismissed, eliminated or excluded, until the accounts for the year in which the withdrawal took place are approved by the General Assembly. FOR: Article 8 - The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations proportionally their participation, in accordance with the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which they are the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred were approved by the general assembly. § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required to do so, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the quotas - subscribed parts, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of their participation in the Compensation Service of Checks and Other Papers, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. 3) Proposed new wording for article 48 and its paragraphs, which deals with systemic solidarity DE: Article 48 - Sicredi Southern Region of Bahia is part of the Sicredi - Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its rules and systemic guidelines (policies, regulations, regulations, manuals and instructions). First Paragraph – Sicredi or System comprises the set of individual credit cooperatives and their respective centers, shareholders of Sicredi Participações S/A (“SicrediPar”), and the Interstate Confederation of Cooperatives Linked to Sicredi – Confederação Sicredi (“ Sicredi Confederation”). They're part, also, Banco Cooperati vo Sicredi S/A (“Banco Sicredi”), the companies controlled by it, Fundação Sicredi and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Second Paragraph - Sicredi Southern Region of Bahia can only disaffiliate from Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and expression of the Sicredi Confederation in the conclave and in meetings with the Central's affiliates, of which must be prior and proven and notified. Third Paragraph - The The entry and permanence of Sicredi in the Southern Region of Bahia in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I – with systemic norms on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Cresc er and Pertencer programs; II – the limits relating to asset strength and economic, financial and liquidity performance, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III – official regulations and the System itself regarding market and liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk and image risk, among others, emanating from the System. Paragraph Four - Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the following restrictions, applied separately or cumulatively at the discretion of the competent administration body, without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for in law and standards of the System itself: I – warning to the responsible Board Members and/or Directors; II - suspension or termination of operational limits at Banco Sicredi and its controlled companies; III – replacement of the members of the Board of Directors, respecting the competence of the general assembly of the respective entity, and/or of the members of the Executive Board, within the competence of the Board of Directors; IV – suspension or termination of access to operations and services operated through Banco Sicredi or provided by other companies and corporate entities that are members of Sicredi; V – cessation of use of the Sicredi brand and elimination of the System. Paragraph Five - The application of the sanctions provided for in items I to V of the previous paragraph will be preceded by notification to the member(s) of the Administration Council, the Executive Board and the Central, as the case may be, so that, in the within 20 (twenty) days, present the reasons that, in their as deemed appropriate, disqualify the infraction or act on which the notification was based, which will be assessed, within the same period of time or at the first meeting that follows, by the competent administrative body, which will communicate its decision to the interested party. , accepting the reasons presented or applying the restriction(s), and in this case, it will inform the responsible entities to comply with the deliberation. Paragraph Six - For the purposes of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this article, a governing body is understood as competent administration: I – in the case of infractions committed within the scope of the centers themselves: the SicrediPar Board of Directors; II – in the case of infractions committed within the scope of affiliates: the Central Board of Directors. Seventh Paragraph - The institutionalization of Sicredi, whose model and rules are contained in this Statute, in the constitutive acts of the other companies and entities that are part of the System and in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), aims at self-management of societies that compose it, processing through a single, political, administrative and operational standard. Paragraph Eight - The political, administrative and operational integration with Banco Sicredi and other companies and entities of the System, in which it participates or not in the capital, does not affect its corporate autonomy. TO: Article 48 - The Company, upon joining the Sicredi North/Northeast Central Credit Cooperative - Central Sicredi NNE, hereinafter called “Central”, it integrates, with it and other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. First Paragraph - The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all the legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only join Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and demonstration of the respective Central in the conclave and core assemblies with members, of which it must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 3 Entry and permanence of Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sic redi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - systemic standards on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with regulations own; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally defined by the System; III - official and normative regulations Sicredi interns. § 4 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 5º The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the strength of the company itself or the strength and/or image of the Sicredi System, in terms of current legislation and internal regulations. § 6 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the reserve account banking, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of Cooperative members or all other affiliates. § 7º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of cooperatives individuals affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 8 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 9 The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports that during the verification. § 10. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicre di Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with the regulations own, form a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11. Central Sicredi North/Northeast as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities , including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 12. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. 4) Approval and consolidation of the Bylaws.