CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVA SICREDI INTEGRAAÇÃO BAHIA CNPJ no. 97.489.280/0001 -85 CALL NOTICE FOR CORE ASSEMBLY Digital Modality The President of the Board of Directors of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Sicredi Integração Bahia – SICREDI INTEGRAÇÃO BAHIA, in the use of the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws and art. 6th, §2nd, of the Pertencer Program Regulations, summons the members of the centers of the service units in the municipality of Itabuna - Ba, to meet in a CORE ASSEMBLY, in digital mode, which will open on November 16, 2023, at 09:00 (nine o'clock) and close on November 16, 2023, at 5pm (seventeen hours), via the Belonging Tool, according to the detailed instructions at the end, to define the positioning of the centers on the following: AGENDA I. Election of the Center Coordinator and his/her Substitute(s), us terms of the Pertercer Program Regulations. Deadline for registration of those interested in the position of Core Coordinator: Members interested in occupying the position of Core Coordinator (Delegate), effective or alternate, may register at the Cooperative agencies or electronically until November 9, 2023 by filling out own form. After signing the document, the member must send the scanned file via email to marianne_silva@sicredi.com.br. To apply for the position, the member must complete the Crescer Program online training, available through the Sicredi course platform: cursos.s icredi.com.br by November 9, 2023. The duties and requirements of the Center Coordinator are detailed in the Pertencer Program Regulations, available at the following website: https://www.sicredi.com.br/coop/integracaobahia/assembleias/. II. Other matters of interest to the membership. Itabuna - Ba, November 1, 2023 Ricardo Amaral Vilas Boas Vice - President of the Board of Directors Observations: 1. Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: During the period in which the Core Assembly is open, members will be able to access the Belong Tool through the website https://fundacao.sicredi.com.br/assembleias/ by registering and identifying yourself with your CPF or CNPJ and password, using any device with internet. 2. Once the vote collection period is over, the results will be counted and published at the electronic address https://www.sicredi.com.br/coop/integracaobahia/assembleias/. 3. Decisions of groups with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members will be considered valid.