Classification of information: Internal Use CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVA SICREDI INTEGRAÇÃO BAHIA – SICREDI INTEGRAÇÃO BAHIA Av. Firmino Alves, nº128 - center - Itabuna - Bahia CEP 45600 -185 CNPJ/MF 97489280/0001 -85 NIRE - 29400018131 NOTICE OF CONTROL VOCATION ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY DIGITAL GENERAL MEETING (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43 -A) The President of the Board of Directors of SICREDI INTEGRAAÇÃO BAHIA – COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT SICREDI INTEGRAÇÃO BAHIA, with headquarters at Av. Firmino Alves, nº128 - center - Itabuna - Bahia CEP 45600 -185, registered with the CNPJ under nº 97489280/0001 -85, in the use of the powers conferred on it by the Company's Bylaws Cooperative, calls on its MEMBERS, who on this date total 4,424, in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet in an Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly, to be held digitally, on April 26, 2022, at 12 (twelve ) hours, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 13 (thirteen) hours, with the presence of half plus one of the associates, on second call; at 2 (fourteen) pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform * accessed via the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1) Election of the Members of the Board of Directors, for the fiscal year 2022 to 2026 and of the members of the Fiscal Council, for the fiscal year 2022 to 202 4; NOTE: After the opening of the Assembly, voting will be open until 7 pm; 2) Assessment of the General Balance Sheet and Statement of Surplus, accompanied by the Opinions of Independent and Fiscal Council Audits, relating to the year 2021; 3) Distribution and Allocation of Surplus calculated in the year 2021; 4) Deliberation on the allocation of F ATES; 5) Setting the value of the fees and benefits of the President and Vice-president of the Board of Directors; 6) Setting the value of fees and benefits for the Executive Board; 7) Establishment of the attendance card, of the Members of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board and Committee Electoral; 8) Verification of the election results; Classification of information: Internal Use 9) Proclamation of those elected to the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council; 10) Assessment and deliberation of the Action Plan 202 2; EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1) Proposal to change the wording of Article 1, item II; exclude the municipality of Feira de Santana (BA); 2) Include in Article 12, of the paragraph according to item V; 3) Proposal for liquidation of the Contingency Fund and reallocation of the existing balance; 4) Proposal to create the Development Fund and approval of its regulations; 5) Approval and Consolidation of the Bylaws; 6) Other matters of social interest, without a deliberative nature. Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the assembly participation tool will be available to members on the website www.sicredi.com.br/(name of cooperative) and at the cooperative's headquarters. To participate in the digital assembly, you must follow the following steps: 1. The member must check that their telephone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or by going to their cooperative; 2. Using the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, the member must register by creating a password; 3. On the day and time of the meeting, the member must access the link again www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, enter your CPF and registered password, click on your cooperative's event and you will be able to participate in discussions and votes on items on the agenda; Members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of the meeting, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, will be guaranteed the right to express themselves in writing, addressed to the board of directors, via chat , thus safeguarding their full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool. The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43 -A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN -DRE I nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. Itabuna (BA), April 6, 2022 . Information classification: Internal use Silvio Porto de Oliveira Chairman of the Board of Directors . *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, registering and identifying themselves with their CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time.