BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SICREDI INTEGRAAÇÃO BAHIA SICREDI INTEGRAAÇÃO BAHIA. CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, FORUM, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Duration Period Art. 1 The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Sicredi Integração Bahia, established at the general meeting of May 3, 1993, it is a financial institution, cooperative society, without profitable and limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - Headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction at Avenida Firmino Alves nº128, Centro, in the city of Itabuna, in the state of Bahia CEP: 45.600-185; II - Area of ​​action always endorsed by Central Sicredi North/Northeast, limited to the municipalities of: Almadina, Arataca, Aurelino Leal, Brejões, Brumado, Buerarema, Camacan, Camamu, Canavieiras, Coaraci, Encruzilhada, Eunápolis, Floresta Azul, Governador Lomanto Júnior, Guanambi, Ibicaraí, Ibirapitanga, Ilhéus, Ipiaú, Itabuna, Itacaré, Itaju do Colônia, Itajuipe, Itamaraju, Itambé, Itapé, Itapetinga, Itarantim, Itiruçu, Itororó, Jacaraci, Jaguaquara, Jequié, Jussari, Macarani, Maiquinique, Maraú, Pau Brasil, Porto Seguro, Potiraguá, Ribeirão do Largo, Santo Antônio de Jesus, Serrinha, Teixeira de Freitas, Ubaitaba, Una, Uruçuca, Valença and Vitória da Conquista, in the State of Bahia; III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast - Central Sicredi Nordeste, and the other affiliates, the Sicredi Cooperative Credit System, also governed by the its regulations. § 1 The Sicredi Cooperative Credit System or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederation Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG) . § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi Nordeste, on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3 Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I- The majority of its members, to become independent; II - The majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. §4º In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5 Entry and The Cooperative's permanence in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - Systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with own regulations; II - Limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - Regulation official and internal regulations of Sicredi. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to being subject to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, aiming to assist it in resolving irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - The obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - Obligations incurred due to transactions in the account bank reserves, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - Loans taken out by Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of Cooperative members or all other affiliates. § 9º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of cooperatives individuals affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 10 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 11º The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports resulting from the verification . § 12º. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 7 and 8 of this article, plus the financial contributions allocated to Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations, comprise a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. Central Sicredi Nordeste as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members from Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and norms regulatory and complementary legal provisions. CHAPTER II CORPORATE OBJECT Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - Carrying out credit cooperative operations, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - Provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and investment clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - Develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their objective the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, in compliance with internal regulations and the current legislation. CHAPTER III MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established herein and are: I - Individuals who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; II - Legal entities established in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative, including its administrators and members; III Depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - Individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - Other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; VI - Parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; VII Individuals, legal entities and non-personalized entities that reside or are established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Nordeste. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2 To acquire the as an associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations of this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2º of the art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - Anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - Anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - Anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - Anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - Anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - Anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - Anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - Anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - Anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - Anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - Anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of sections IV and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - Participate in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - Vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - Use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - Propose to the Board of Directors changes to statutory and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by a member; V - Propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request from 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Company to be discussed and resolved at a general meeting; VI - Have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - Have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII - Resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 The duties of associates are: I - Comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - Operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - Pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - Preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - Do not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - Maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - Keep registration information up to date. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses verified in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general meeting, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, willful or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - If the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - Violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - Practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Administration the reasons that, in its opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and inform the member of its decision, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating them from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which This may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5º When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, being able to suspend or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days he can present his reasons for defense , which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analysis Of these, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or a general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as the case may be. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs due to: I - Dissolution of the legal entity; II - Death of the natural person; III - Loss of unfulfilled civil capacity; IV - Failure to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. §1 Change of address after association will not be considered as loss of statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may This delegates the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 30,000.00 (ink thousand reais), which must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the Individual member must subscribe and pay in at least 10 (ten) shares, equivalent to R$10.00 (ten reais) and legal entities 20 (twenty) shares, equivalent to R$20.00 (twenty reais). I To continuously increase their share capital, after completing the subscription and initial payment, the individual member must subscribe and pay in monthly, the equivalent of R$10.00 (ten reais), for a minimum period of 180 (one hundred and eighty months). II To continuously increase their share capital, after completing the subscription and initial payment, the Legal Entity member must subscribe and pay monthly, the equivalent of R$20.00 (twenty reais), for a minimum period of 180 (one hundred and eighty months). ). III There may be an increase in voluntary share capital with or without monthly capitalization; IV These rules apply to members who join the Cooperative's membership from now on, and must always be respected the statutory rule in force at the time of entry; V For the member opting exclusively for the Digital Platform, there will be no continuous payment. § 3 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. . § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, it may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new shares of capital , including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, Subscription and monthly payment will be permitted, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1 /3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the capital Paid-in payment always responds as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as a guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund of referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general meeting, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, allowing payment in installments by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within 5 ( five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its framework in all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors , respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting is held referred to in § 10 of this article, provided that: I - The partial result of the year in which the dismissal occurs presents surpluses; II - There are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - The Cooperative's financial and asset conditions are considered, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 70 (seventy years) and, cumulatively, integrates the membership of the Cooperative for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, you may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of your share capital, maintaining your status as a member, with the minimum number of shares -parties established in § 2 of this article. § 14. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a associated, with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 15 The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of social capital initiated by associates more flexible, including for the purpose of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum number of shares - established shares in § 2 of this article. § 16. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his/her dismissal occurred of the membership framework. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 18. The return referred to in §§ 13, 14 and 15, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be given at the discretion of this collegiate, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Company and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative. § 19. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 20. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts due by the former may be compensated, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective quotas, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital quotas, maintaining their status as a member with the minimum quotas established in § 2. of this article. § 21. The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years after dismissal. § 22. In addition to the hypotheses of redemption of shares provided for in this article, the Board of Directors of the Cooperative may authorize redemptions in situations it deems relevant, maintaining its status as a member with the minimum of shares established in § 2 of this article , as long as you are 12 (years old) as an associate. CHAPTER V GENERAL MEETING: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions of interest to the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or disagreeing . § 1 At the discretion of the Board of Directors, and considering the relevance of the matters, the matters on the agenda of the general meetings may or may not be previously assessed by the respective groups in which members are grouped together. § 2 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform the members later. § 3 The coordination of core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if this is impossible, by whoever he indicates. §4 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, by means of a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the Internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, for 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - The name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II - The day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - The agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - The method of access to the means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - The procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - The number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, to installation quorum effect; VII - Place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The quorum of installation, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - Half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and its own regulations, being able to attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate will not be able to exercise, simultaneously, an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the delegate's vote at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies of delegates by the centers will be made based on their own regulations and the following parameters: I - The Cooperative will group its members into up to 20 (twenty) centers, observing its own regulations; II - The grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place in a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elective positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in the regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In case of voting secret, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in the vote, the classification order will observe the seniority of association in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general meeting does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent effective and substitute delegates will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general assemblies will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, he will assume the presidency of the assembly the Vice-President, who will invite an administration advisor to act as secretary. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer to it directly or indirectly, in which case the Center will be represented by its alternate or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except regarding matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which votes of 2/ 3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. To the deliberations and other substantial events at the assemblies will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many more as wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place of continuation of the session, respecting the legal quorum, both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The general assembly ordinary meeting will be held once a year, within the legal deadline, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - Accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising : a) Management report; b) Balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) Statement of surpluses or losses. II - Allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses arising from insufficiency contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - Election of the members of the administrative and fiscal councils; IV - Setting, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses for the members of the Councils; V - Approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term, following the national system standard; VI - Any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - Reform of the Bylaws; II - Merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - Change of the Company’s purpose; IV - Voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - Liquidator's accounts; VI - Maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission constituted specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring the its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same collegiate. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 09 (nine) advisors among them, a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the application and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in the Sicredi's internal regulations: I - Not maintain, since applying, an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the board of directors, supervisory board or the Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - Not be a spouse or partner, nor be related to the 2nd (second) degree, directly or collaterally, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - Not be, simultaneously, employed or administrator or hold interest in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that are part of Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - Not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V - Meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the activities inherent; VI - Not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - Not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have a negative record in any databases; VIII - Not have, through intent or negligence, committed any irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX- Have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) general assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - Have participated, in the immediately previous exercise, or participate courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of their mandate, up to the deadline of 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for full compliance with statutory and legal incumbency, being prohibited accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires incompatible dedication with responsibility in the Cooperative; XII - Have certification from the Crescer Program; XIII - Have training in a higher-level course; XIV - Meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XV - do not expose negatively, or to directly or indirectly, the image of any entities of SICREDI, its statutory members or employees, due to the position, by any means, verbal or written, or any marks of property entities that are part of Sicredi; XVI - Not having suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVII - Not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is a member or non-member administrator, the provision of services or the supply of products being considered habitual which, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months; § 1 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their employment. mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3º The mandate will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, note that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, given that Those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor their participation remainder of those that happened. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will indicate substitutes, among its components. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position. position(s), whether or not the designated one(s) is confirmed, and the elected person(s) will serve the remaining time of the President's term(s) and/or Succeeded Vice President(s). Reducing the number of Board members less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - Loss of associate status; II - Non-attendance, without prior justification, at 3 (three) consecutive or 5 (five) alternating meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Council of Administration decides on the origin of the justification; III - Death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - Leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - Sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - The holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9º For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood as: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), as per current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of a party executive: people who, affiliated to a given party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the "convention" of the party, assuming the functions of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated post to those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - It meets monthly in an ordinary manner, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the call of its President, the majority of the Board itself, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - Decide, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - The deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which will be recorded by the President of the Board. The Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - Establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by him; II - Monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - Approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - Appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V - Register vacancies among members of the Board of Directors and Executive Board; VI - Authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - Decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - Forward to the general assembly proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - Decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate the allegations of infractions committed within the company, include those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of the appropriate penalties; XI - Decide on the elimination and exclusion of associates; XII - Decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - Authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, in compliance with complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and in compliance with current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines to respect; XIV - Authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as the decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of other facilities or branches of the Cooperative, inside or outside the host municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XV - Comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and Sicredi’s internal regulations; XVI - Express an opinion on the administration report and accountability for the year; XVII - Choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - Approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing social capital among members; XIX - Authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing social capital among the membership; XX - Decide on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until further deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The Chairman of the Board is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I Monitoring and supervising the Cooperative activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - Lead the implementation of programs for organizing Sicredi's membership, development and management, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - Monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - Submit to the Board of Directors proposals for internal regulations, observing systemic guidelines; V - Submit the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, for consideration by the Board of Directors, monitoring their implementation; VI - Present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - Select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - Represent the Cooperative institutionally, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - Participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever they indicate; X - Pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - Systematically evaluate the service provided to members on the Cooperative's premises, aiming to guarantee satisfaction and the quality of services provided to members; XII - Apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - Indicate a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his/her leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out the acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the company, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, being an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the Directors' term of office or vacancy, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effected within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - By 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - By 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - Before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed capital companies; II - In the granting of documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of representatives and lawyers; III - In cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, Candidates must meet the following conditions: I - Meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and XV to XVII, as well as § 1; II - Obey the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - Have a degree in higher education; IV - Proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V Meet complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations, is responsible for: I - Managing the Cooperative operationally, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and the corporate guidelines and strategies of the Sicredi; II - Contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, give in and compromise or renounce rights, as well as monitoring the economic and financial state of society, observing the provisions of this Statute; III - Appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except those that contemplate the powers of the clause ad judicia, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - Sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, subject to the provisions in this Statute; V - Authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - Prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - Implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - Examine plans for work and respective budgets, monitoring its execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - Decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines for audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - Decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - Comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - Responsible for all other activities related to the ordinary administration of the Cooperative; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperativ a with its members, respecting the authority approved by the Board of Directors. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) Foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) Provide resources and guarantee implementation and monitoring of Sicred i's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) Respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) Coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) Responsible for performance management and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) Be formally responsible for the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) Prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) Represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Director of Operations: a) Responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) Responsible for internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as taking measures in the supervision process and ensuring the respect for internal rules and legislation; c) Be formally responsible for the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - To the Business Director: a) Prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) Responsible for performance management and monitoring of unit results service, striving to fully achieve the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) Respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its requirements; d) Respond for the execution of the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) Be formally responsible for the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1º It is prohibited to any of the members of the Executive Board to perform acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, allowing the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7 5th, items III to VI of this Statute Social, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective replacement, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by the other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties assignments for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1 Directors who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause harm to the Company, will respond directly with their own assets for compensation for damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the form of the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII OF FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing, as far as to the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVII, of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires complete slate(s), independent and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2 The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is a member or non-member administrator, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months. § 3 The term of office will be 2 years. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for calling the meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 Absent coordinator and/or secretary, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in-person, remotely, or in-person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting for the appropriate completed within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 7 5th, of this Statute, it is up to the Board itself to assess the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which it is confirmed. appointment, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - Exercising assiduous supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; II - Assiduously control financial movements, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - Evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - Analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules about the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting opinion to the general meeting, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of its functions; V - Be aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central's auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - Check compliance, by the administration of the Cooperative, the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all cooperatives individuals and respective central members of Sicredi; VII - Report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, warning about the irregularities detected and, in the absence of action on the part of the latter, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - Examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - Give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general meeting, relating to the incorporation, the merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - Call a general meeting, by decision of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons arise. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which arises from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors It is, in its inertia or reluctance, to timely report it to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year has duration of 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surpluses determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 45% (forty-five percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and meet the development of the Cooperative; II - 5% (five percent), at least, for the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families, and employees of the Cooperative and the community located in its area of ​​action; III - The remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1 Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the required/stipulated asset structure, by the monetary authority and standards internal affairs of Sicredi, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares of capital of the associates or allocated additionally to the own reserve fund. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining the mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Council of Administration, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER X DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION Art. 47. In addition to other hypotheses provided for by law, the Cooperative dissolves itself as of right: I - When the general assembly so decides, as long as 20 (twenty) members, at least, are not willing to ensure its continuity; II - By changing its legal form; III - By reducing the number of members to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, are not reestablished; IV - For the cancellation of authorization to operate; V - For the interruption of its normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous legitimacy competitor to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting to decide on the proposition of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and principles cooperativists, consulted, when applicable, the social bodies. Itabuna (BA), March 9, 2023. Silvio Porto de Oliveira Chairman of the Board of Directors.