1 Iguatemi Business Avenida Nilo Peçanha, 2.900 9th floor - Chácara das Pedras 91.330 -001- Porto Alegre - RS - Brazil Tel: +55 51 3204 -5500 ey.com.br INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Administrators and Associates of Sicredi Credit Cooperative in the Southern Region of Bahia - Sicredi in the Southern Region of Bahia Itabuna / BA Opinion We examined the financial statements of the Sicredi Credit Cooperative in the Southern Region of Bahia - Sicredi Região Sul da Bahia (“Cooperative”), which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2020, and the respective statements of surplus, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year ended on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all relevant aspects, the equity and financial position of Cooperativa de Crédito Sicredi Região Sul da Bahia - Sicredi Região Sul da Bahia on December 31, 2020, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN), including Resolution No. 4. 818 of May 29, 2020 of the National Monetary Council (CMN) and BCB Resolution No. 2 of August 12, 2020 of BACEN. Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities, in accordance with such standards, are described in the following section entitled “Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Code of Ethics Professional Accountant and professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Other information accompanying the financial statements and the auditor's report The management of the Cooperative is responsible for this other information that comprises the auditor's report administration. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover management's report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on that report. In connection with the audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read management's report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or, otherwise form, appears to be significantly distorted. If, based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is a material misstatement in the management report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. A member company of Ernst & Young Global Limited 2 Management and governance responsibilities for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the statements financial institutions in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil, including Resolution No. 4,818/20 of the National Monetary Council (CMN) and Resolution No. 02/20 of the Central Bank of Brazil ( BACEN) and for the internal controls that it determined were necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. At preparation of the financial statements, the administration is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of the financial statements unless the management intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no realistic alternative to avoid closing operations. The responsible for the governance of the Cooperative are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing the financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for auditing the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and to issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any existing relevant distortions. Misstatements may arise from fraud or error and are considered material when, individually or collectively, they may influence, within a reasonable perspective, users' economic decisions taken based on said financial statements. As part of the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. In addition: • We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, whether caused by fraud or error, plan and perform audit procedures in response to such risks, and obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to substantiate our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, omission or intentional false representations. • Obtain an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Cooperative. • We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by management. 3 • We conclude on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is material uncertainty regarding events or conditions that may raise significant doubt regarding the operational continuity capacity of the Cooperative. If we conclude that material uncertainty exists, we should draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or include a modification of our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer remain in operational continuity. • We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner consistent with the objective of fair presentation. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other things, the scope and timing of planned audit work and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, February 19, 2021 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC – 2SP015199/O -6 Américo F. Ferreira Neto Contador CRC -1SP192685/O -9