Classification of information: Internal Use ELECTORAL CODE OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE INTEGRATION OF THE SOUTH OF MATO GROSSO, AMAPÁ AND PARÁ – SICREDI INTEGRATION MT/AP/PA CHAPTER I Initial provisions Art. 1 This Electoral Code establishes the systemic rules of the process of election to the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of Sicredi's individual cooperatives. Art. 2 The electoral process will comply with the provisions of legislation, statutes social structures of individual cooperatives and the rules of this Code. CHAPTER II Electoral Procedure in Individual Cooperatives with Delegated Vote Section I Electoral Commission Art. 3 The electoral process will be conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, ensuring its autonomy and independence. § 1 The Commission will be appointed by the Board of Directors with the minimum advance notice necessary to meet all deadlines essential to the organization of the electoral process. § 2 The Commission will be composed of at least 03 (three) individual members, with the option of appointing substitutes, subject to the following requirements: a) do not make up the list of candidates; b) not be holding a position on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; c) are not spouses, partners, relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, of the candidates or their current mandates on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative. Art. 4 The Electoral Commission is responsible for: I – receiving the registration protocols of candidate lists; II - analyze whether the registered candidates meet the legal, statutory requirements and this Code necessary to run for elected positions and other aspects related to the electoral process; III – approve or not the registered plate(s); IV - define the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period prior to or during core assemblies and general assemblies; Classification of information: Internal Use V - define whether voting will be by acclamation or secret, including operational aspects related to the election, especially when there is more than one ticket registered, such as: a) the model of voting ballots or electronic voting , the location of ballot boxes and voting booths, according to the case; b) the procedures for determining the results of the election, including requesting, if necessary, the support of members present to monitor the process and assist in counting the votes; c) processing and forwarding requests received from candidates regularly registered in the process; d) the beginning and end of the voting process; e) general instructions relating to the process and the result of the vote; VI - inform the registered panel(s) of their decisions; VII - resolve omitted cases; VIII - apply the penalties provided for in this Code or in the Minutes of the Electoral Commission. § 1 The meetings will be recorded in minutes and the deliberations are valid by the decision of a simple majority, with the majority of the committee members present. § 2 At the first meeting held, the Commission will choose a coordinator and a secretary from among its members. § 3 In the absence of members of the Electoral Commission at the core assembly, the Commission will appoint a representative. § 4th The Electoral Commission may request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative for the work of the Commission. § 5 In the event of a tie in the voting for candidates for the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, at the general meeting, the candidate whose group of candidates has the longest average time of association with the Cooperative will be considered the winner. § 6 Except for express and individual consent, in accordance with the General Personal Data Protection Law, no personal data of associates for the purposes set out in this Code. Art. 5 The practice of the following acts is prohibited by any member of the board, by themselves or by interposed persons: I - using information protected by bank secrecy or by the General Data Protection Law; II - adopt practices that may cause damage or damage to the image of Sicredi or any of Sicredi's member entities; III - threaten or coerce associates or collaborators of the Cooperative; IV - propagate untruths or information without due proof; V - offer advantages or privileges in exchange for votes; VI - use the Sicredi brand; Classification of information: Internal Use VII - violates current legislation, the Cooperative's Bylaws or this Code. § 1 The Electoral Commission may provide, in minutes, other practices that it considers prohibited and their penalties. § 2º For the practices specified in this article, they will be classified as items I and III are very serious, items II, IV and V are serious, and items VI and VII are considered moderate. Art. 6 The practice of any of the infractions provided for in this Code will subject the offending Board to the following sanctions, applied alternately or cumulatively at the discretion of the Electoral Commission, without prejudice to civil and criminal liability: I - warning, in writing, with the application of more than one warning will be classified as a serious infraction; II – suspension for 5 (five) days any propaganda manifestation of the ticket, in any medium and location; III - revocation of the candidate's candidacy. Sole paragraph: The application of item III will be directed to practices classified as very serious, item II will be directed to acts classified as serious and item I will be directed to acts classified as moderate. § 1 The application of the penalty(s) will be preceded by notification to Chapa so that, within the deadline set by the Electoral Commission, it presents response. § 2 Whether or not the response mentioned in § 1 of this article is received, within the fixed period, the Electoral Commission will decide on the application of the penalty, with due communication to Chapa. § 3 All penalties applied will be communicated by the Electoral Commission at the Assemblies. Section II Registration of the Board(s) Art. 7 The President of the Board of Directors will disclose to the membership, at least 45 (forty-five) days in advance before the first Core Assembly, the opening of the registration period for the slate(s) for the election of the Board of Directors and/or Supervisor. § 1 The disclosure will be posted in a visible location, preferably in agencies, other forms of disclosure being provided, at the discretion of the Cooperative. This publication must contain, at a minimum: a) the registration period for the ticket, indicating the times; b) the place where the plate is registered; c) indication of the documents necessary for registration of the plate. § 2º registration period for the slate(s) will begin with the announcement mentioned in this article and will end 30 (thirty) days before the first Nucleus Assembly is held, and the registration request must be filed at the Cooperative's headquarters at the time between 9 (nine) and 17 (seventeen) hours. Classification of information: Internal Use § 3 The ticket registration protocol must be accompanied by the documents required by this Code, electronic address or telephone number for contact and be signed by one of its members, who will be the representative of the group for all purposes. § 4 Once the registration period has closed, the Cooperative will publish the list of registered candidates on the following day. § 5 The slate(s) for the Board of Directors and the slate(s) for the Fiscal Council must be independent and complete. § 6 Individual registrations will not be accepted for candidacy for elective positions, and it is prohibited to simultaneous participation in more than one ticket. Art. 8 Once the registered slates have been published, any person, whether associated or not, will have a period of 2 (two) days to present an objection, duly accompanied by supporting documents. Single paragraph. If there is an objection, a period of 2 (two) days will be opened for the contested candidate to respond and, as soon as the deadline has expired, the documentation will be forwarded to the Electoral Commission. Art. 9 Up to 10 (ten) days before the First Core Assembly, the Electoral Commission will meet to: I - decide on possible challenges; II - analyze compliance with legal, statutory requirements and this Code; III - approve or not the plate(s). § 1 Before deciding whether or not to approve the plate(s), the Commission may: I - request additional information, or determine measures, for assistance within 2 (two) days, and, after analyzing this, decide , as appropriate; II - for a single time, determine the replacement of candidate(s) who do not meet the corresponding requirements, for service within 2 (two) days, and must comply with the provisions of art. 8th of this Code; III - accept replacement in case of death; IV - receive, up to 5 (five) days before the deadline set out in § 8 of this article, a single request for replacement of candidate(s), per ticket, indicating the respective substitute. § 2 Non-approval will cover the entire list, even when the objection is granted deal only with one or some of its components. § 3º There will be no appeal against the decision on the approval or not of the plate(s). § 4 Up to 3 (three) days before the first Core Assembly, the Commission will publish the final nomination, in a visible place and easily accessible to interested parties, on the Cooperative's premises. § 5 Once the final nomination has been announced, the approved plate(s) cannot be changed, except in the case of death. § 6 In the case of a single plate, after approval, the replacement of a candidate is permitted in the case of withdrawal, death or when it is found that the corresponding requirements are not met. Classification of information: Internal Use § 7º In the event that replacement is admitted after the approval of the ticket (§5º and §6º), the Electoral Commission will grant a period of 2 (two) days for the ticket to promote the replacement of the candidate , observing the requirements for candidacy and the provisions of art. 8th of this Code. Art. 10 One Once the ticket(s) has been approved, the Electoral Commission must hold a meeting in order to define: I - the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period prior to or during the assemblies, with the use of the Sicredi brand by any candidate; II - the operational aspects related to the election and voting, especially when there is more than one regularly registered ticket. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may invite representatives of candidates to participate in the meeting discussed in this article. Art. 11 Regardless of the way in which members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Boards are chosen, the registration of candidates and/or slates will not be permitted at the Core Assembly or at the general assembly. Section III Documents Art. 12 Along with the protocol request for each candidate, the applicants are responsible for delivering the documents for each candidate listed below, the veracity of which will be verified by the Electoral Commission, by the means at its disposal: a) certified copy of the identification document and CPF; b) declaration of disqualification from holding the position, if elected to the management or supervisory body; c) negative or positive certificates with the effect of negative debts of federal, state and municipal taxes and contributions, including from any company of which he is the controller or administrator; d) civil, state and federal certificate, from the respective domiciles and where it carries out activity, issued no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery, including from any company of which it is the controller or administrator; e) criminal, state and federal certificate of the respective domiciles, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; f) electoral criminal certificate, issued no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; g) negative certificate or positive with negative effects on labor debts; h) negative certificate of security protest; i) declaration issued by the candidate that he is not on the register of issuers of bad checks (CCF); j) copy of the last income tax declaration, or the exemption declaration, in both cases with the updated asset stratification; Classification of information: Internal Use k) negative certificate issued by the Court of Auditors of the respective State domicile, and the Union; l) form provided by the Cooperative duly completed and signed by all members of the panel(s). Single paragraph. The electoral commission will be responsible for analyzing cases and occurrences that are related to paragraphs "c", "d" and "h", in accordance with the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER III Final Provisions Art. 13 The deadlines provided for in this Code will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the day Final. Single paragraph. If the due date falls on a holiday or weekend, the deadline will be considered extended until the next business day. Art. 14 The provisions set out in this Electoral Code do not apply to the election to fill a vacant position on the Board of Directors or Supervisors already elected, in which case the replacement must be previously appointed by the respective board, observing the legal and statutory requirements. This Electoral Code was approved by the Assembly General held on 04/14/2022. Rondonópolis/MT, April 14, 2022. CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE INTEGRATION OF THE SOUTH OF MATO GROSSO, AMAPÁ AND PARÁ - SICREDI INTEGRATION MT/AP/PA __________________________ __________________________ Marco Túlio Duarte Soares Antonio Carl os Dourado President Vice President