Together we build a better world. We are Cooperativa Sicredi Integração Mato Grosso, Amapá and Pará and we are part of a System with more than 120 years of history and more Cooperatives distributed throughout the country. In 2022 we carried out several actions in support of Cooperation Day (C-Day), a national initiative promoted by the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) that seeks to demonstrate the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. Actions that are connected to Sustainable Development Goals:In 2022, our cooperative carried out several local actions and impacted more than Children's healthActions 2 thousand peopleRondonópolis-MT Agência Vila Aurora During the week of Children's Day, an action focused on oral hygiene for children from Associação Meninos do Sol , where we took a pediatric dentist to talk about nutrition and oral health care. We had guided brushing and delivery of hygiene kits. To finish, we get together with a delicious snack served by our employees. Donation of food and health in the community Macapá-AP Agencies Macapá and Amapá Donation of toys and lots of joy Rondonópolis-MT Agência Vila OperáriaThere were two special actions! In the first, the team donated basic food baskets to needy families in the Monte Sinai Community, located on Linha F, rural area of ​​Macapá. There were also artistic performances and snacks for parents and children. The second was held at Orla de Macapá once again involving all our collaborators, where a mini stage with a tent was set up, containing a physical education professional and 02 people in costume, who performed various dynamics and dances involving all the people who were walking along the shore. Our employees also distributed 100 oral hygiene kits, collected in partnership with the associated Cooperative, Uniodonto. Healthy mind, happy child Alto Garças-MT Alto Garças Agency Action carried out with the children who do recreation and activities at Cejupa (Youth Center “Padre Agostini”) and we extended the invitation to their brothers. It was a morning with lots of games and snacks, with toy donations and raffles for all the children. Our garden Itiquira-MT Agência Ouro Branco do Sul We carried out the Nossa Horta action at the Bonifácio Sachetti State school, where together with primary school students we created a garden, with the aim of encouraging healthier eating. The vegetable garden will serve the school community, helping to produce a healthier lunch for all students. Cooperation in Movement Alto Araguaia-MT Agência Alto Araguaia Voluntary physical education professionals from the gyms, city hall and collaborators put together a healthy breakfast for the community, followed by a morning of lots of physical activity outdoors with the group of the best age and with a crossﬁt class. Still in the morning, the project concluded with breakfast. morning and educational contest with children hosted by the Maria de Nazaré spiritual center project. Cooperating is a way of loving Guiratinga-MT Agência Guiratinga Action carried out in favor of Casa Gaetana, which is a support home for the elderly in Guiratinga, our objective was to collect diapers, and values ​​through Pix, and also collaboration with members for a lunch that we accomplished on this day. All of this was possible through the cooperation of the Guiratinga community. We also support Entity, creating a Pix so that the community can continue donating. Cooperating is a way of loving Guiratinga-MT Agência Guiratinga Action held at Fazenda Nossa Senhora Aparecida, where we celebrated Children's Day with games, sweets and meals. Employees helped serve children and adults, we played games with the children and distributed some sweets. This event has been a tradition for over 20 years in the community. Donations were made to organize the party. community and partners. Donate blood to save lives Rondonópolis-MT Rio Branco Service Point Understanding the importance of donating blood, the team of employees came together to strengthen the donation movement. The gesture reinforces our commitment to people's lives.Cinema and Financial Education Tesouro-MT Agência Tesouro The action took place at Escola Sagrado Coração de Jesus, with the help of collaborators, teachers and school staff. The action was aimed at students from 03 to 05 years, who watched Turma da Mônica's videos on financial education, which is a partnership between Mauricio de Souza and Fundação Sicredi. During the film screening, popcorn and soft drinks were distributed to the children. At the end of the exhibition, a kit with comic books from Mônica's class on financial education was delivered to the participating children, and Sicredi balloons were distributed to complete this moment of relaxation and lots of learning for the little ones. Recicla Verdinho Project Itiquira-MT Agência Itiquira The recicla verdinho project was developed by the city of Itiquira in partnership with Sebrae and with support from the Sicredi cooperative. This project, which aims to awaken environmental awareness in school-age children, also promotes family farming, providing access to healthier food and savings for families. Students collect recyclable material (pet bottles, aluminum cans, and other packaging) and, after washing, exchange them for a voucher called Verdinho. Ten units of recyclable material yield one Green which, in turn, is worth R$1.00. The voucher serves as “currency” for the exclusive purchase of family farming products at the city's Municipal Fair and subsequently, market stallholders exchange the greenbacks for Reais at the local Sicredi branch. Each employee, spontaneously, sponsored a child by purchasing a toy for to be delivered to the Gleba Carimã community, in celebration of Mother's Day children. The day was full of joy and emotion, both for the children who were present and for the employees and other volunteers. All together for a smile Rondonópolis-MT Agência 13 de Maio We visited Casa do Abrigo, a home for children and teenagers who are abandoned by their families or who go through some conflict at home. In conversation with those responsible for the place, we observed that outside of there, children do not have any leisure time. In light of this, we have organized to promote a day of lots of leisure and fun with the children. It was a morning full of joy, which we provided for the children at the shelter. Help and cooperate with the Lar dos Idosos Rondonópolis-MT Agência Granville We collect personal hygiene products through partnerships with companies and donations from the community and Sicredi employees. It was a morning of great gratitude during the delivery of materials, being able to contribute to such an important institution for our city, such as Lar elderly. Living well is for everyone São José do Povo-MT Agência São José do Povo The action aimed at the elderly public in the city, took place at Santana thermas, on a day full of activities with a motivational talk given by a psychologist and a social worker, presentations ballet, capoeira, a child singer from the city, as well as lots of fun accompanied by a physical education professional. We also had a delicious lunch prepared with lots of love and care for everyone. gifts! Achievement: Support: 1. Free and voluntary membership 2. Democratic management 3. Economic participation 4. Autonomy and independence 5. Education, training and information 6. Intercooperation 7. Interest in the community Follow our social networks. Search for Sicredi MT/AP/PA Integration Our Mission - Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business. - Respect for the individuality of the member. - Valuing and developing people. - Preservation of the institution as a system. - Respect for official and internal standards. - Efficiency and transparency in management.Our Values ​​The 7 principles of CooperativesAs a cooperative system, valuing relationships, offering financial solutions to add income and contributing to improving the quality of life of members and society.Our Vision To be recognized by society as an institution cooperative ﬁnancial, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with growth sustainable development of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Building a more prosperous society together.Our Purpose