Classification of information: Internal Use CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE CAMPOS GERAIS AND GRANDE CURITIBA – SICREDI CAMPOS GERAIS AND GRANDE CURITIBA PR/SP CNPJ no. Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Campo s Gerais and Grande Curitiba - Sicredi Campos Gerais and Grande Curitiba PR/SP, in the use of the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Social Statute and art. 20th of the Regulations of the Pertencer Program, summons the core delegates, who on that date total 115 (One hundred and fifteen) delegates, to meet at an ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY to be held on March 17, 2023, at 18:00h (eighteen hours), in first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in second call, at 19:00h (nineteen hours), with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and , third and last call, at 20:00 (twenty hours), with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held in the auditorium of the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Av. Ernesto Vilela, no. 1.001, Bairro Nova Russa, in this city, for the delegates to deliberate on the following: THE ASSEMBLY will deliberate on the following AGENDA 1 . Provision of accounts relating to the financial year ending on December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report they are; b) balance sheet for the corresponding year; c) statement of surplus; d) External Audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Allocation of resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund - FATES. 4. Election of the members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils. 5. Setting the value of fees, bonuses and benefits for the President and Vic e-President and the attendance records of the members of the Administrative and Fiscal Councils. 6. Review of the Succession Policy. 7. Authorization for the Board of Directors to acquire or sell real estate for the Cooperative's own use. 8. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Information classification: Internal Use Ponta Grossa -PR, February 27, 202 3. Popke Ferdinand Van Der Vinne President OBSERVATIONS: 1. The President noted that, in compliance As per the provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 of article 13 of the Bylaws, the subjects on the agenda, except items 05, 06 and 07, were previously discussed in the communities in which the cooperative operates. They were carried out and will take place between 01/23/2023 and 03/15/2023.