Classification of information: Internal Use BELONGING REGULATION CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This Regulation governs the procedures that govern the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management and development process of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - Credit System Cooperative, hereinafter simply referred to as “cooperatives” or “cooperative”. Single paragraph. In addition to the provisions in the caput, the Program also aims to equip cooperatives in order to increase the participation of members in matters related to their management and development, through centers. Art. 2 The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 3 The provisions contained in this Regulation regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after the amendment of the cooperative's bylaws, contemplating this form of participation, in accordance with the regulations in force, and apply to cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 1 It is optional for co-operatives that serve specific segments and/or categories to adopt this form of member participation as long as they have the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 2 For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will receive the name of nucleus coordinator in this Regulation. CHAPTER II CORE MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES Art. 4 A meeting is considered to be a meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members or coordinators to discuss matters of specific interest to the membership, the nucleus or those defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Single paragraph. The meetings will be organized and held with the prior knowledge of the President of the Board of Directors. Art. 5 A core assembly is considered to be an event held with members with the aim of deliberating on: Classification of information: Internal Use I - The election and dismissal of the core coordinator, effective and substitutes; II - The matters of the general assembly of the cooperative, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 1 The call for core assemblies, containing date, time, place and/or how it will be carried out and matters to be resolved, will be done through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably at least 10 (ten) days in advance. § 2 The call will, as a rule, be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors. § 3 In the event that the general meeting is called by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or after a request is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of members in full enjoyment of their social rights, core assemblies must automatically be called. § 4 If the provisions of the previous paragraph occur, at least 3 (three) counselors or associates must sign the notice. § 5 The nucleus may call a nucleus assembly to dismiss or elect its nucleus coordinator. § 6 The core assembly, regardless of the form of implementation, will be considered valid when, at the end, it has had the presence of at least 10 (ten) members per nucleus. § 7 If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per group, there must be a new call in accordance with § 1 of this article. If there is not enough time to call it, the core vote will not be considered at the general meeting. § 8 The participation of members in the core assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors, who may choose between in-person, semi-in-person or digital forms, without prejudice of the registration of their manifestations during the voting exercise. §9 The matters of the core assemblies will be considered approved by a majority of those present. §10. In the event of a tie in the nucleus vote, the tiebreaker will be exercised by the nucleus coordinator. If absent, he/she will cast a tie by expressing his/her vote at the general assembly. §11. When holding core assemblies in a blended or digital format, a channel for interaction with the cooperative will be made available. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 6 The rights of members, in addition to those reviewed in the Cooperative's Bylaws: I - Vote and be voted for nucleus coordinator; II - Propose to the nucleus coordinator any matters of interest to the cooperative to be explained at meetings; III - Discuss and vote on the matters covered by the core assembly. Art. 7 The attitudes expected of members are: I - Knowing and practicing cooperativism; II - Appoint new associates; III - submit suggestions to the nucleus for consideration to improve operations, services, customer service, facilities, among others; IV - Make yourself available as a candidate for nucleus coordinator. CHAPTER IV NUCLEUS Art. 8 The group of members of the cooperative is considered a nucleus, taking into account the following premises: I - The cooperative will define the number of members per nucleus, observing the limit of nuclei established in Bylaws, through registration in the minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. The number of members per nucleus cannot be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II - After this definition, the number of members grouped in groups cannot exceed a variation of 50% more or less; III - the cooperative must have at least 11 (eleven) member groups, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - For guarantee the right to vote for members of newly opened branches or those that have not reached the number defined in section I of this article by the Board of Directors, it will be up to the Board of Directors to define the form of participation of these members in the centers; V - Each nucleus will have an effective nucleus coordinator and at least 1 (one) substitute at the time of election, and the number of substitutes may be established by the Board of Directors; Information classification: Use Internal VI - The nucleus grouping must observe the best service for the member, respecting the nucleus criteria defined by the Board of Directors; VII - the cooperative will define the number of nuclei that can be grouped into the same nucleus assembly, as long as it guarantees adequate accommodation for members. § 1 When the number of core members exceeds a variation of 50% (fifty percent) of members, more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in section I of this article. § 2 When the number of centers in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote its amendment. § 3 When the Board of Directors decides to reduce the number of cooperative centers, there will be an automatic loss of the mandate of the coordinators of the extinct nucleus. CHAPTER V THE CENTER COORDINATOR Art. 9º The nucleus coordinator is the individual member physicist elected at a core assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and representing members at general assemblies, when the cooperative adopts this modality. Art. 10. To apply and carry out the activities of nucleus coordinator, the applicant must: I - Have certification in the Crescer Program; II - Make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a political position or function -partisan upon election, or during the term of office, subject to the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws; IV - not respond, due to pending issues related to protest of securities, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, in addition to not having a negative record in any database, external or from the company itself operative, as well as having promoted or being promoting, as part or attorney, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi; V - Not be an employee of the cooperative or have been dismissed from the cooperative for just cause; and VI- Not be a former director or director who is subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during his term of office or who, for the same reasons, has been removed from office or resigned from the position for which he was elected. Information classification: Internal Use Art. 11. The core coordinator's duties will be considered: I– When invited, participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the cooperative's social projects; II - Participate in meetings of nucleus coordinators, nucleus meetings and nucleus assembly; III - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - Participate, when invited by the President or Board Member ion, of events of interest to the cooperative.; and V - participate in the training of coordinators in the cooperative, disseminating cooperativeism. Single paragraph. Member data cannot be provided by the cooperative to the nucleus coordinator, due to the confidentiality of information. Art. 12. In addition to the matters provided for in the sections of art. 5th of these Regulations, the following will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of core coordinators: I - preparation of the core assemblies that precede general assemblies; II - issues related to the development of the cooperative; III - analysis of the cooperative's economic and financial situation; IV - others of interest to the cooperative administration. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTION PROCESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 13. The election of nucleus coordinators will take place at a nucleus assembly in good time before the general assembly of the cooperative, and the candidate must register on the appropriate form provided by the cooperative, within the period established when convening the core assembly. Single paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with the requirements required for the role and inform the candidate. Art. 14. The term of office of core coordinators will comply with the term set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 15. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 16. Will be considered elected nucleus coordinators: Classification of information: Internal Use I - The members with the most votes, up to the limit of the number of nuclei in the agency, will be considered effective coordinators. II – After the vacancies for effective coordinators have been filled, the members with the most votes will fill the vacancies for substitute coordinators, with the same number of permanent coordinators. The substitutes will not have a defined core. The person with the most votes among the substitutes will be the 1st substitute of all the members; the 2nd with the most votes, the 2nd substitute, and so on. III – Agencies with up to 2 (two) centers will have 4 (four) substitutes. § 1 The hypotheses in items I, II and III of this article must be recorded in the election minutes. § 2 In the event of a tie in voting, the member who will perform the functions of effective nucleus coordinator will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, the same rule being valid for substitutes. Art. 1 7. The investiture of core coordinators will take place automatically after the election results are announced. Art. 1 8. In the event of a vacancy in the effective core coordinator, the first substitute will assume the role. If there are no substitutes to take over, the core members will elect new core coordinators in accordance with art. 13, effective and alternate(s), to serve the remainder of the term. § 1 The following are the hypotheses of vacancy for core coordinators: I - loss of membership status; II - non-attendance, without justification, to the general assembly of the cooperative, at the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, resignation and dismissal; IV - health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in his or her duties; V - as a party or attorney-in-fact, promote legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; VI - no longer meets the conditions to the role of nucleus coordinator, in accordance with these Regulations; VII - be elected member of the Cooperative's Board of Directors or Supervisory Board, or even director; Classification of information: Internal Use VIII - exercise a vote at the general assembly that differs from that defined by the nucleus; IX - hold a position on corporate bodies in a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; X - transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; XI - become an employee of another financial institution. § 2 In the event that the core coordinator is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request for resignation within 48 hours (forty eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed or 48 hours (forty eight and eight hours) after assuming one of the positions mentioned above, under penalty of the position becoming vacant. For the purposes of this Regulation, party political position is understood to be the provisions of the Social Statute of the company. operative. § 3 The dismissal of the nucleus coordinator will occur by deliberation of the members in a nucleus assembly. Other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. CHAPTER VII REPRESENTATIVENESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 19. Effective nucleus coordinators will be called upon to represent the members at the general assemblies of the cooperative and, if they are unable to attend, their substitutes. § 1st Whenever the effective nucleus coordinator is present at the general meeting, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. § 2 As soon as he becomes aware of the impossibility of attending the general meeting or needs to be absent when it has already started, the effective nucleus coordinator must communicate the fact to his deputy and also to the cooperative, for his replacement. § 3º If the core coordinator, effective and alternate coordinator cannot participate (s), at the general assembly, the President of the assembly may request the secretary or another member, who will be the representative for the act, to present the vote, reading the result of the vote of the respective nucleus, in order to be computed at the general meeting. § 4 According to the system provided for in § 4 of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the nucleus coordinator's vote will be linked to the decisions of the nucleus he represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the core assembly. § 5 The absence of the coordinator at the general assembly will be informed by the cooperative to the respective nucleus at the first nucleus assembly that takes place. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 2 0. The nucleus coordinator will not receive any type of financial compensation, except for the reimbursement of his expenses for carrying out the function, which must be decided by the Board of Directors Cooperative administration. Art. 2 1. Meetings and core assemblies held by the cooperative must be registered in advance in the Belonging Program management tool. Art. 2 2. The cooperative starting its activity or recently integrated into the System will join this Program after evaluation and recommendation from the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. This Belonging Regulation will be approved at the General Assembly held on 10/2023.