Classification of information: Internal Use Sicredi INTERNAL ELECTORAL REGULATIONS Sicredi Campos Gerais and Grande Curitiba PR/SP 1 Classification of information: Internal Use INTERNAL ELECTORAL REGULATIONS OF SICREDI CAMPOS GERAIS AND GRANDE CURITIBA PR/SP CHAPTER I Initial Provisions Art. 1 Internal electoral regulations aims to determine the procedures for forming slates for the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council, of Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Campos Gerais and Grande Curitiba – Sicredi Campos Gerais and Grande Curitiba PR/SP. Art. 2 This Regulation aims to meet the particularities of the Cooperative in relation to the representativeness of the membership, ensuring greater leadership and participation of all regions in which the cooperative operates, as well as establishing those eligible and the form of indicating the components of the slates for the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board. Art. 3rd This regulation respects the provisions of the Cooperative's Bylaws, the provisions of the Electoral Code and the regulations of the Pertencer program, both of the Sicredi System. Art. 4 The management of this Regulation is the responsibility of the Cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 5 The General Assembly is responsible for approving and amending these Regulations. CHAPTER II Conditions for holding the position of counselor in the Cooperative and participating in the constitution of slates Art. 6 As a condition for candidacy and holding positions as members of the Cooperative's councils, the provisions of the legislation, Bylaws and these regulations must be observed. Sole paragraph: For the purposes of this regulation and conceptualization of items VI and VII of art.27 of the Bylaws, the following are defined: a) successive debt negotiations: 2 (two) or more renegotiations in the last 12 (twelve) months or 4 (four) or more in the last 24 (twenty-four) months prior to the election. b) checks issued without funds: the check that at the time of its presentation is returned by any item due to insufficient funds; or that the compensation or payment left the member's current account negative in advance to the depositor, even if the check has not been returned, and will be considered an impediment for application purposes 3 2 Classification of information: Internal Use (three) occurrences in the last 12 (twelve) months or 6 (six) occurrences in the last 24 months before the election. Art. 7 Only natural person members who meet the requirements set out in the legislation, the Bylaws, the Sicredi Electoral Code and these regulations may be part of the Cooperative Boards. Art. 8 Management Councilors and Fiscal Councilors who are exercising their mandates may be part of the slate and be led to a new term of office, respecting the minimum renewal legal advice. CHAPTER III Representation of the membership in the composition of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board Art. 9 The board of directors will be composed of 11 (eleven) components. One vacancy will be for the position of President, not occupying a vacancy in his electoral region. The remaining 10 vacancies will be distributed in the electoral regions mentioned in article 11. § 1 If there is a need to increase the number of advisors, within the limits established by the Bylaws, the decision will be made by the Board of Directors, which will determine the way in which additional members will be chosen to form the list, from among the following options: a) by vote of the components of the board of directors; b) by voting among the delegates of the respective electoral regions. § 2 At the discretion of the Board of Directors, new municipalities or cooperatives that may be incorporated into the Cooperative may be included in electoral regions already existing. Art. 10 The municipalities within the Cooperative's area of ​​action will be divided into electoral regions, which will be composed of agencies from the following municipalities: a) Region 1: agencies from the municipalities of Curiúva, Ventania and Piraí do Sul; b) Region 2: agencies in the municipalities of Castro, Carambeí and Tibagi; c) Region 3: agencies in the municipality of Ponta Grossa; d) Region 4: agencies in the municipalities of Ivaí, Ipiranga and Palmeira; e) Region 5: agencies in the municipality of Curitiba; f) Region 6: agencies in the municipalities of Colombo, Adrianópolis, Almirante Tamandaré, Bocaiuva do Sul, Campina Grande do Sul, Cer ro Azul, Dr. Ulisses, Itaperuçu, Quatro Barras, Rio Branco do Sul and Tunas do Paraná; 3 Classification of information: Internal Use g) Region 7: agencies in the municipalities of Barra do Turvo, Cajati, Cananéia, Eldorado, Iguape, Iporanga, Ilha Comprida, Itariri, Jacupiranga, Juquiá, Miracatu, Pariquera -Açu, Pedro de Toledo, Peruíbe, Registration, Seven Bars and Tapiraí. Art. 11 For greater representation of members, for the components of the council slates, with regard to vacancies by region, the following must be observed: I – Distribution of vacancies for the Board of Directors: Electoral Region Number of Vacancies Region 1 1 Region 2 3 Region 3 2 Region 4 1 Region 5 1 Region 6 1 Region 7 1 President 1 General Total 11 4 Classification of information: Internal Use a) Aiming to preserve pre-emptive vacancies -determined for the Board of Directors by electoral region, these may only be increased and not decreased, up to the limit of the Bylaws. b) The deliberations of the nuclei to which the electoral regions belong must always be observed. II- Distribution of vacancies for the Fiscal Council: Electoral Region Number of Vacancies Region 1 and 2 1 Region 3 1 Region 4 1 Regions 5, 6 and 7 1 General Total 4 For the composition of the Fiscal Council slate, it will be observing the transitional rule set out below, until the composition of vacancies is adjusted in accordance with the regulations: a) In the case of indication of the stay of 2 (two) counselors from Region 4, exceptionally Region 3 must meet with the Regions 1 and 2 for appointment of 1 (one) advisor; b) In the event that advisors from Regions 1 and 2 are appointed to remain, exceptionally Region 4 must meet with Region 3 to appoint 1 (one) advisor; CHAPTER IV Formation of slates Art. 12 In compliance with the legal and statutory provision regarding the minimum renewal of councils, the counselors who are exercising their positions will define which councilors will remain to form the new slates of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council. Sole paragraph: A renewal greater than the legal minimum may be carried out, at the discretion of the members of the Councils themselves. 5 Information classification: Internal use Art. 13 The Cooperative's internal controls area will be responsible for certifying, in accordance with all current regulations, the eligibility conditions of the Administration and Fiscal advisors. Sole paragraph: The certificate of eligibility must be delivered by the beginning of the meeting scheduled for the composition of the Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards. Art. 14 All votes referred to in this regulation will be secret, unless there is a unanimous decision of those present with right to vote in the opposite direction. Sole paragraph: Before voting begins, those present with the right to vote will be consulted on how to vote. Art. 15 The definition of candidates for positions on the Board of Directors, at the discretion of the Chairman of the Board, will not need to occur at the same meeting, however, the definition of candidates for positions must respect the following deadlines, always considering the year preceding elections: § 1st President of the Council: 1st from September to November 30; § 2nd Vice-President: from September 1st to November 30th; § 3rd Advisors: from November 1st to November 30th. THE FORMATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' PLATE Art. 16 The Chairman of the Board will call, in the period from September 1st to November 20th of the year preceding the elections, the meeting(s) of the Board, which may be ordinary (s) or extraordinary (s), for deliberation on the slate formation process. Sole paragraph: The Directors with a current mandate must be notified about the meeting(s) at least 10 (ten) days in advance. Art. 17 The formation of the Board of Directors' slate will begin with the definition of the candidate for the position of President of the Board and then for the position of Vice-President. § 1 The members of the Board of Directors who are exercising the role of office. § 2 For the positions of Chairman of the Board and Vice-Chairman, only members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board, with a current mandate, may be appointed. §3º The candidate who obtains 2/3 (two thirds) of the votes of the Council members will be considered nominated for participation in the list as President of the Council. If no candidate receives 2/3 in the first vote, the nomination will be defined as described below: 6 Classification of information: Internal Use a) If there are at least 4 candidates voted, a second vote will be held between the 3 candidates with the most votes. If there are no 4 candidates voted, only the two most voted will participate in this second vote; b) In this second vote, the candidate who obtains more than 50% of the votes will be considered nominated. If no candidate obtains more than 50% of the votes, a third vote will be held only between the two most voted candidates; c) If there is In the third vote, where only two candidates participate, the individual member with the longest membership in the cooperative will be considered nominated. § 4º The Candidate to be nominated to participate on the ticket with the Vice-President must obtain more than 50% of the votes. If this percentage is not obtained in the first vote, the definition of the nomination will be as described below: a) If there are at least 4 candidates voted, a second vote will be held between the 3 most voted candidates. If there are no 4 candidates voted, only the two with the most votes will participate in the second vote; b) If no candidate obtains more than 50% of the votes in the second vote, a third vote will be held only between the two most voted candidates; c) if there is a tie in the third vote, where only two candidates participate, the individual member with the longest membership in the cooperative will be considered nominated. § 5º The tiebreaker criterion in any of the phases described in §§ 3 and 4 will be the member, an individual, with the longest membership in the cooperative. Art. 1 8 To define the other members in the composition of the Board of Directors' list, the following procedures must be observed: I - The selection of the other members will only occur after defining the nomination of the candidates for president and vice-president; II - Each member of the Council will receive a ballot with the printed name of all Council members administration; III – If any member does not wish to be part of the new list, they must express themselves before voting begins at the definition meeting and their name will be removed from the list; IV – Each member must vote for a number of advisors that, in addition to the President and Vice-President already appointed, does not exceed the number of 2/3 (two thirds) of the current Board, aiming to preserve the mandatory renewal of at least 1 /3 (one third); V – The vote will be considered valid, the ballot contains the exact number of vacancies and indications of remaining vacancies. VI – In the sum of the votes, the most voted will be nominated to be part of the new list; 7 Classification of information: Internal Use VII – In case of a tie for the last vacancy(s), a new vote must be carried out, this time with only the names of those who are tied on the ballot. VIII - If there is a tie, the member of the Council, the individual with the longest association in the organization, will be considered nominated. Cooperative. IX – With the definition of the Council members indicated to be on the composition list, the electoral region of the members who will leave the council will be verified, to identify which electoral region will be entitled to nominate the components for the remaining vacancies. X -If one of the nominees to remain in the plate of the fact, an additional vacancy for renewal is opened, which will be occupied by a new nominee, which is not part of the current board; XI - The President of the Council will inform the nucleus coordinators of the electoral region that has an open vacancy, to meet, in accordance with the criteria set out in this Regulation, with a minimum period of 10 days after the meeting that defined the opening of the vacancy, and a maximum until the month of December preceding the year of the election, at a place, date and time determined by the President of the Council; XII – The coordinators or substitutes of the respective regions will indicate among those eligible to register with the agency, in the Cooperative secretariat or if they present themselves at the meeting as candidates, the member who will represent the region on the ticket in composition; XIII - Anyone who meets the requirements set out to occupy the role, and who does not act as a member of the electoral commission that will evaluate the tickets, is considered eligible; XIV - The candidate to be nominated for the Board of Directors must: a) obtain more than 50% of the votes; b) if no candidate obtains the percentage in item “a” A new vote will be held between the 3 candidates with the most votes, if there are at least 4 candidates who obtain the vote. If there are no 4 candidates to vote, only the two with the most votes will participate in this new vote; c) if there is a tie in any of the stages, including the last one, where only two candidates participate, the individual member with the longest membership in the cooperative will be considered the winner; XV - The second most voted member will be substituted for the first until the requirements are validated by the cooperative's internal controls area, and will replace the one with the most votes, if this does not meet the requirements set out in the Bylaws; XVI – If, after checking the requirements, the available vacancies are not filled, a new meeting will be called, with a minimum period of 3 (three) and a maximum of 7 (seven) working days; THE FORMATION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL Slate Art. 1 9 To define the components of the Fiscal Council slate, The following procedures will be observed: I – The councilors will meet in November of the year preceding the elections to define the Council's slate. 8 Classification of information: Internal Use II - The meeting to form the slate may be ordinary or extraordinary and will be called by the Council Coordinator at least 10 days in advance. III – If any advisor does not wish to be part of the new list, he or she must express his/her opinion before voting begins in the definition meeting and your name will be removed from the list; IV – Each councilor will receive a ballot with the printed name of all councilors who wish to be part of the list being formed; V – Each councilor must vote for 2 (two) names; VI – In the case of voting on more or less names than provided for in section V, the vote will be considered null and void; VII – In the sum of the votes, the two names with the most votes, or in the event of a tie between two names with the highest votes, these will be part of the number of personnel; VIII – In the event that 3 (three) or more directors are tied for 1st place, the member, an individual, with the longest association in the cooperative will be considered elected to compose the list, with the others competing for the 2nd place in accordance with the rules provided for in section IX; IX – If there is a tie for the 2nd vacancy, a new vote must be held, with only the names of those tied on the ballot. Each advisor will vote for 1 (one) name and the most voted will be part of the list. In the event of a tie, the advisor, the individual who has been associated with the Cooperative for the longest time, will be part of the list; X - With the definition of up to two (2) counselors indicated to be on the composition plate, there will be the verification of the electoral region of the members who will leave the council, to identify, which electoral region will be entitled to indication of components for the remaining vacancies. XI – If one of the nominees to remain on the ticket withdraws, open There is an additional vacancy for renewal, which will be occupied by a new appointee, who is not part of the current Board. If the withdrawal is permanent, the substitute will assume the permanent position, opening a new vacancy for substitute in the electoral region to which the withdrawal belongs; XII – When there is a renewal of vacancies for electoral regions 1 and 2, as well as 5, 6 and 7, they must meet together and extraordinarily when it is necessary to appoint a new Fiscal Councilor. XIII - The coordinator of the Fiscal Council will request the President of the Cooperative Council, who will inform the core coordinators of the electoral region that has an open vacancy, to meet, according to the criteria set out in this Regulation, within the same deadlines defined for the Board of Directors, when the elections coincide and when they are not until the month of December of the year preceding the election; XIV – Core coordinators or substitutes from the respective regions electoral candidates will indicate among those eligible to register with the agency, at the Cooperative secretariat or present themselves at the meeting as candidates, the member who will represent the region on the ticket in composition; XV - Anyone who meets the requirements set out to occupy the role, and who does not act as a member of the electoral commission that will evaluate the tickets, is considered eligible; XVI - The candidate to be nominated for the Fiscal Council slate must: a) obtain more than 50% of the wishes; 9 Classification of information: Internal Use b) if no candidate obtains the percentage in item “a”, a new vote will be held between the 3 candidates with the most votes, if there are at least 4 candidates who obtain the vote. If there are no 4 candidates to vote, only the two with the most votes will participate in this new vote; c) if there is a tie in any of the stages, including the last one, where only two candidates participate, the individual member will be considered the winner. physicist with longer membership in the cooperative; XVII - The second member with the most votes will act as a substitute for the first until the requirements are validated by the cooperative's internal controls area, and will replace the member with the most votes if he does not meet the requirements set out in the Bylaws; XVIII – If, after checking the requirements, the available vacancies are not filled, a new meeting will be called, with a minimum period of 3 (three) and a maximum of 7 (seven) days Useful; XIX - The nominated councilor who obtains the highest percentage of votes in the first vote will be registered as an effective member of the list, and the one with the lowest percentage of votes as a substitute for the list being formed, regardless of the region. If there is a tie, the individual member with the longest membership in the Cooperative will be considered effective. CHAPTER V Final provisions Art. 20 The meetings of core coordinators of the electoral regions will be coordinated by the Executive Board, with support from the Cooperative Development management of the Cooperative. Art. 2 1 When calling for meetings in the electoral regions where the nominations of new members for the slates will take place, at least 2/3 (two thirds) of the core coordinators or alternates of each agency must be notified in advance minimum of 72 (seventy-two) hours on the date, place and time of the meeting to indicate member(s) to compose the new member(s) slate(s) of the Council(s). Art. 2 2 Members who wish to compete for nomination for the composition of the Boards' slates do not need to be present at the meeting where voting will take place, simply registering with the agency in which they are a member, or at the secretariat of the cooperative, until the day before the meeting. Art. 23 In the event of the need to break the tie based on length of association, for members coming from Cooperatives or incorporated municipalities, the date of admission to these cooperatives or municipalities. Art. 2 4 After defining the indications regarding mandatory renewals by the coordinators of the electoral regions included in the renewals, it will be up to the candidate for President, in the case of the Board of Directors, and, to one of the candidates for effective advisor, in the case of the 10 Classification of information: Internal Use Fiscal Council, file, with the Cooperative secretariat, the registration of the plates, as per provided for in current regulations. Art. 2 5 If, for any reason, the number of members of the Board of Directors and/or Supervisory Board is reduced, even if it does not fall below the minimum set out in the Bylaws, it will be up to the Board of Directors to decide whether to call a meeting to complete this ( vacancy(s). If the Board of Directors chooses to fill this vacancy(s), it must also determine how to nominate the candidate(s), among the two options available. follow: a) by vote of the members of the board of directors; b) by vote and between the core coordinators of the respective electoral regions. Art. 2 6 The Board of Directors will be responsible for deliberating on matters inherent to the slate formation process that are not covered by these Regulations. Ponta Grossa, October 18, 202 2. POPKE FERDINAND VAN DER VINNE JOSÉ ALVARO GOES FILHO President of Board of Directors Vice President