Classification of information: Internal Use Sicredi INTERNAL ELECTORAL REGULATIONS Sicredi Campos Gerais and Grande Curitiba PR/SP 1 Classification of information: Internal Use INTERNAL ELECTORAL REGULATIONS OF SICREDI CAMPOS GERAIS AND GRANDE CURITIBA PR/SP CHAPTER I Initial Provisions Art. 1 Internal electoral regulations aims to determine the procedures for forming slates for the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council, of Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Campos Gerais and Grande Curitiba – Sicredi Campos Gerais and Grande Curitiba PR/SP. Art. 2 This Regulation aims to meet the particularities of the Cooperative in relation to the representativeness of the membership, ensuring greater leadership and participation of all regions in which the cooperative operates, as well as establishing those eligible and the form of indicating the components of the slates for the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board. Art. 3º This regulation respects the provisions of the Cooperative's Bylaws, the Electoral Code and the regulations of the Pertencer program, both of the Sicredi System. Art. 4 The management of this Regulation is the responsibility of the Cooperative's Board of Directors. Sole paragraph: The operationalization of the Electoral Regulations will be the responsibility of the Electoral Commission, created specifically for the Electoral process, under the terms of the Bylaws. Art. 5 It is up to the General Assembly approval and amendments to these Regulations. CHAPTER II Conditions for holding the position of advisor in the Cooperative and participating in the constitution of slates Art. 6 As a condition for candidacy and holding positions on the boards of the Cooperative, the provisions of the legislation, Bylaws, Regulation of Belonging and this regulation, without prejudice to the reanalysis of eligibility conditions at the time of registration definitive selection of the ticket, in accordance with the Electoral Code. Sole paragraph: For the purposes of this regulation and conceptualization of items VI and VII of art.27 of the Bylaws, the following are defined: a) successive debt negotiations: 2 (two) or more renegotiations in the last 12 (twelve) months or 4 (four) or more in the last 24 (twenty-four) months prior to the election. 2 Classification of information: Internal Use b) checks issued without funds: the check that at the time of its presentation is returned for any item due to insufficient funds; or that the compensation or payment left the member's current account negative in advance to the depositor, even if the check has not been returned, and 3 (three) occurrences in the last 12 (twelve) will be considered impediments for application purposes. months or 6 (six) occurrences in the last 24 months prior to the election. Art. 7 Only people associated with physical properties, and that meet the requirements set out in the legislation, the Bylaws, the Belonging Regulations, the Sicredi Electoral Code and these regulations. Art. 8 Management Councilors and Fiscal Councilors who are exercising their mandates may be part of the slate and be led to a new term of office, respecting the minimum legal renewal of these councils. CHAPTER III Representation of the membership in the composition of the board of directors Administration and Fiscal Art. 9 The board of directors will be composed of 11 (eleven) members. §1º The vacancy in the position of President will not be counted for the purposes of distributing vacancies in the electoral regions. § 2º The remaining 10 (ten) vacancies will be distributed in the electoral regions as provided for in article 11. § 3º If there is a need to increase the number of advisors, within the limits established by the Bylaws, the decision will be made by the Council of Administration, which will determine the way in which additional members are chosen to form the list, from among the following options: a) by vote of the members of the board of directors; b) by voting among the delegates of the respective electoral regions. § 4 At the discretion of the Board of Directors, new municipalities or cooperatives that may be incorporated into the Cooperative may be inserted into existing electoral regions. Art. 10 The municipalities in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative, will be divided into electoral regions, which will be composed of agencies from the following municipalities: a) Region 1: agencies from the municipalities of Curiúva, Ventania and Piraí do Sul; b) Region 2: agencies in the municipalities of Castro, Carambeí and Tibagi; 3 Information classification: Internal use c) Region 3: agencies in the municipality of Ponta Grossa; d) Region 4: agencies in the municipalities of Ivaí, Ipiranga and Palmeira; e) Region 5: agencies in the municipality of Curitiba; f) Region 6: agencies in the municipalities of Colombo, Adrianópolis, Almirante Tamandaré, Bocaiuva do Sul, Campina Grande do Sul, Cerro Azul, Dr. Ulisses, Itaperuçu, Quatro Barras, Rio Branco do Sul and Tunas do Paraná; g) Region 7: agencies in the municipalities of Barra do Turvo, Cajati, Cananéia, Eldorado, Iguape, Iporanga, Ilha Comprida, Itariri, Jacupiranga, Juquiá, Miracatu, Pariquera -Açu, Pedro de Toledo, Peruíbe, Registro, Sete Barras and Tapiraí. Art. 11 For greater representation of members, on the Cooperative Councils with regard to vacancies by region, which must be observed by all members, will follow the distribution: I – Distribution of vacancies for the Board of Directors: Electoral Region Number of Vacancies Region 1 1 Region 2 3 Region 3 2 Region 4 1 4 Information classification: Internal Use Region 5 1 Region 6 1 Region 7 1 President 1 General Total 11 a) Aiming to preserve pre-determined vacancies for the Board of Directors by electoral region, these may only be increased and not decreased, up to the limit of the Bylaws. b) The deliberations of the nuclei to which the electoral regions belong must always be observed. II- Distribution of vacancies for the Fiscal Council: Electoral Region l Number of Vacancies Region 1 and 2 1 Region 3 1 Region 5 1 Regions 4, 6 and 7 1 General Total 4 a) The vacancy in region 5 will be made available upon renewal of advisor from region 04 or the current advisor from region 05, 06 and 07. CHAPTER IV The formation of slates when initiated within the councils with a current mandate Art. 12 In compliance with the legal and statutory provisions regarding the minimum renewal of councils, the advisors who are exercising their positions will be able to define which advisors will remain to form the new slates of the Administration and Fiscal Council. Sole paragraph: Renewal may be greater than the legal minimum. 5 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 13 The Cooperative's internal controls area will be responsible for certifying, in accordance with current regulations, the eligibility conditions of Administration and Fiscal advisors with a current mandate. Sole paragraph: The certificate of eligibility must be delivered by the beginning of the meeting scheduled for the composition of the Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards. Art. 14 All votes referred to in this regulation will be secret, unless there is a unanimous decision by those present with the right to vote otherwise. Sole paragraph: Before voting begins, those present with the right to vote will be consulted on how to vote. Art. 15 The definition of candidates for positions on the Board of Directors, at the discretion of the Chairman of the Board, will not need to occur at the same meeting, however, the definition of candidates for positions must respect the following deadlines, always considering the year preceding the elections: § 1st President of the Council: from September 1st to November 20th; § 2nd Vice-President: from September 1st to November 20th; § 3rd Advisors: from November 1st to November 20th. THE FORMATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' PLATE Art. 16 The Chairman of the Board will call, in the period from September 1st to November 10th of the year preceding the elections, the meeting(s) of the Board, which may be ordinary (s) or extraordinary period(s), for deliberation on the process of forming the slate. Sole paragraph: Directors with a current mandate must be notified about the meeting(s) at least 10 (ten) days in advance. Art. 17 The formation of the Board of Directors' slate will begin with the definition of the candidate for the position of President of the Board and then for the position of Vice-President. § 1 For the positions of President of the Council and Vice-President, only the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board are appointed, with a current mandate. § 2º The members of the Board of Directors who are holding the position will have the right to vote, to indicate the President of the Board and the Vice-President of the list in composition. §3 The candidate who obtains 2/3 (two thirds) of the votes of the Council members will be considered nominated for participation in the list as President of the Council. If no candidate obtains 2/3 (two thirds) in the first vote, the definition of the nomination will be as described below: 6 Classification of information: Internal Use a) If there are at least 4 (four) candidates voted, a second vote will be held between the 3 (three) candidates most voted. If there are no 4 (four) candidates voted, only the two with the most votes will participate in this second vote; b) In this second vote, the candidate who obtains more than 50% (fifty per percent) of the votes. If no candidate obtains more than 50% (fifty percent) of the votes, a third vote will be held only between the two most voted; c) If there is a tie in the third vote, where only two candidates compete, the individual member with the longest membership in the cooperative will be considered nominated. § 4º The Candidate to be nominated to participate on the ticket as Vice-President must obtain more than 50% (fifty percent) of the votes. No obtaining this percentage in the first vote, the definition of the nomination will be as described below: a) If there are at least 4 (four) candidates voted, a second vote will be held between the 3 (three) candidates with the most votes. If there are no 4 (four) candidates voted, only the two with the most votes will participate in the second vote; b) If no candidate obtains more than 50% of the votes in the second vote, a third vote will be held only between the two most voted candidates; c) If there is a tie in the third vote, where only two candidates compete, the individual member with the longest membership in the cooperative will be considered nominated. § 5 The tiebreaker criterion in any of the phases described in §§ 3 and 4 will be the member, an individual, with the longest membership in the cooperative. Art. 1 8 To define the other members in the composition of the Board of Directors, the following procedures must be observed: I - A the selection of the remaining members will only occur after the nomination of candidates for president and vice-president has been defined; II - Each member of the Board will receive a ballot with the printed name of all members of the Board of Directors; III – If any member does not wish to be part of the new list, they must express themselves before voting begins at the definition meeting and their name will be removed from the list; IV – Each member must vote for a number of advisors who, in addition to the President and Vice-President already appointed, do not exceed the number of 2/3 (two thirds) of the current Council, aiming to preserve the mandatory renewal of at least 1/3 (one third); V – A vote will be considered valid if the ballot contains the exact number of indications for the remaining vacancies. VI – In the sum of the votes, the most voted will be nominated to be part of the new list; 7 Information classification: Internal Use VII – In case of a tie for the last vacancy(s), a new Voting must be carried out, this time with only the names of those who are tied on the ballot. VIII - If there is a tie, the Board member, the individual with the longest membership in the Cooperative, will be considered nominated. IX – With the definition of the members of the Council indicated to be on the list in composition, the electoral region of the members who will leave the council will be verified, to identify which electoral region will be entitled to nominate the members for the remaining vacancies. X -If one of the nominees to remain in the sheet dish, an additional vacancy is opened for renewal, which will be occupied by a new nominee, which does not part of the current council; XI - The Chairman of the Board shall summon, by the usual media of communication used by the cooperative, the coordinators of the core of the electoral region that has an open vacancy, with a minimum period of 10 (ten) days after the meeting of the Board of Directors that defined the opening of the vacancy for the electoral region, and at the latest until the month of December preceding the election year, to define the region's candidate to be part of the Board of Directors' slate. a) The notice will contain the date, time and place where the meeting will be held; b) Interested parties must register, up to 72 (seventy-two) hours before the meeting, using a form provided by the Cooperative. c) Registration can be delivered directly to the agency, headquarters of the cooperative, as well as through the Cooperative Development Management. d) Proof that the interested party does not have a negative record with credit protection bodies (E x.:Serasa, SPC, among others) must be delivered together with the registration form, without prejudice to the other requirements to be analyzed . XII - The Electoral Commission will communicate, through the Cooperative Development Management, within 24 (twenty-four) hours before the electoral region meeting, to the registered, those who were considered eligible and/or ineligible. XIII - All interested parties who meet the requirements to occupy the position are considered eligible, in accordance with art. 7th of this regulation, and who do not act as a member of the electoral commission that will evaluate the tickets. XIV – The nucleus coordinator will have the right to vote, in his absence the substitute. XV - The candidate to be nominated for the Board of Directors must: a) obtain more than 50% of the votes; b) if no candidate obtains the percentage in item “a”, a new vote will be held between the 3 (three) candidates with the most votes, if there are at least 4 (four) candidates who obtain the vote. If there are no 4 (four) candidates to vote, only the two with the most votes will participate in this new vote; c) if there is a tie in any of the stages, including the last one, where only two candidates participate, the individual member with longer membership in the cooperative; 8 Information classification: Internal use Social; XVII – If, after checking the requirements, the available vacancies are not filled, a new meeting will be called, with a minimum period of 3 (three) and a maximum of 7 (seven) business days; THE FORMATION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL Slate Art. 1 9 To define the members of the Fiscal Council slate, the following procedures will be observed: I – The counselors will meet on the 1st. on November 20th of the year preceding the elections to define the Council's ticket. II - The meeting to form the slate may be ordinary or extraordinary and will be called by the Council Coordinator at least 10 (ten) days in advance. III – If any advisor does not wish to be part of the new list, he/she must express his/her opinion before voting begins at the definition meeting and his/her name will be removed from the list; IV – Each councilor will receive a ballot with the printed name of all councilors who wish to be part of the list being formed; V – Each councilor must vote for 2 (two) names; VI – In the case of voting on more or less names than provided for in section IV, the vote will be considered null and void; VII – In the sum of votes, the two names with the most votes, or in the event of a tie in two names with the highest votes, these will be part of the list as effective; VIII – In the event that 3 (three) or more directors are tied for 1st place, the member, an individual, with the longest association in the cooperative will be considered elected to compose the list, with the others competing for the 2nd place as per the established rules in section IX; IX – If there is a tie for the 2nd staff vacancy, it must be A new vote was held, with only the names of those tied on the ballot. Each councilor will vote for 1 (one) name and the one with the most votes will be part of the list. In the event of a tie, the advisor, the individual who has been associated with the Cooperative for the longest time, will be part of the list; X - With the definition of up to 2 (two) counselors indicated to be in the plate in composition, there will be the verification of the electoral region of the members who will leave the council, to identify, which electoral region will be entitled the nomination of members for the remaining vacancies. XI – If one of the nominees to remain on the list withdraws, an additional vacancy will be opened for renewal, which will be occupied by a new nominee, who is not part of the current Council. If the withdrawal is effective, the substitute will assume the permanent position, opening a new vacancy for substitute in the electoral region to which the withdrawal belongs; XII – When there is a renewal of vacancies for electoral regions 1 and 2, as well as 4, 6 and 7, these They must meet jointly and extraordinarily when it is necessary to appoint a new Fiscal Councilor. 9 Classification of information: Internal Use XIII - The coordinator of the Fiscal Council will request the President of the Cooperative Council, who will call the nucleus coordinators of the electoral region that has an open vacancy, to meet, according to the criteria set out in this Regulation, within the same deadlines defined for the Board of Directors, when the elections are coincident and when they are not until the month of December of the year preceding the election; a) The notice will contain the date, time and place where the meeting will be held; b) Interested parties must register, up to 72 (seventy-two) hours before the meeting, using a form provided by the Cooperative. c) Registration can be submitted directly to the agency, headquarters of the cooperative, as well as through the Cooperative Development Management. d) Should Proof that the interested party does not have a negative record with credit protection agencies (E x.:Serasa, SPC, among others) must be delivered together with the registration form, without prejudice to the other requirements to be analyzed. XIV - The Electoral Commission will communicate, through the Cooperative Development Management, up to 24 (twenty-four) hours before the electoral region meeting, to those registered, those who were considered eligible and/or ineligible. XV - All interested parties who meet the requirements to occupy the position are considered eligible, in accordance with art. 7th of this regulation, and who do not act as a member of the electoral commission that will evaluate the tickets; XVI – The nucleus coordinator will have the right to vote, in his absence the substitute. XVII - The candidate to be nominated for the Supervisory Board must: a) obtain more than 50% of the votes; b) if no candidate obtains the percentage in item “a”, it will be A new vote will be held between the 3 candidates with the most votes, if there are at least 4 candidates who receive the vote. If there are no 4 candidates to vote, only the two with the most votes will participate in this new vote; c) if there is a tie in any of the stages, including the last one, where only two candidates participate, the individual member with the longest membership in the cooperative will be considered the winner; XVIII - The second most voted member will be substituted for the first, until the requirements are validated by the cooperative's internal controls area, and will replace the person with the most votes, if they do not meet the requirements set out in the Bylaws; XIX – If, after checking the requirements, the available vacancies are not filled, a new meeting will be called, with a minimum period of 3 (three) and a maximum of 7 (seven) working days; XX - The nominated councilor who obtains the highest percentage of votes in the first vote will be registered as effective on the ticket, and, the one with the lowest percentage of votes as a substitute for the ticket in formation, regardless of the region. If there is a tie, the individual member with the longest membership in the Cooperative will be considered effective. 10 Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER V General Provisions Art. 20 The meetings of core coordinators of the electoral regions will be coordinated by the Electoral Commission, with the support of the Executive Board and the management of the Cooperative Development of the Cooperative, with all acts recorded in minutes. Art. 2 1 In the call for meetings in the electoral regions where the appointment of new members to the slates will take place, as per item XI of art. 19 and item XIII of art.18, at least 2/3 (two thirds) of the core coordinators or alternates of each agency must be notified, at least 72 (seventy-two) hours in advance of the date, place and time the meeting to indicate member(s) to compose the new board(s) of the Council(s). § 1 To hold the meeting provided for in the caput, at least 50% (fifty) percent of the groups must be represented. § 2 If the quorum provided for in § 1 is not reached, a new meeting must be called at least 3 (three) days and at most 7 (seven) days in advance. Art. 2 2 The member who wants to compete for nomination to be part of the Boards' slates, You do not need to be present at the meeting where the vote will take place, simply registering in accordance with these regulations. Art. 23 In the event of the need to break the tie based on length of association, for members coming from Cooperatives or incorporated municipalities, the date of admission to these cooperatives or municipalities will be considered. Art. 2 4 After defining the indications regarding mandatory renewals by the coordinators of the electoral regions included in the renewals, it will be up to the candidate for President, in the case of the Board of Directors, and one of the candidates for effective advisor, in the case of the Fiscal Council, to file, with the Cooperative's secretariat, the registration of the slates, as provided for in the current regulations. CHAPTER VI Final Provisions Art. 2 5 If, for any reason, the number of members of the Board of Directors and/or Supervisory Board is reduced, even if it does not fall below the minimum set forth in the Bylaws, it will be up to the Board of Directors to decide whether to call a meeting to fill this vacancy(s). If the Board of Directors chooses to fill this vacancy(s), it must also determine the form of nomination of the candidate(s), among the following two options: a) by vote of the members of the board of directors administration; 11 Classification of information: Internal Use b) by vote among the core coordinators of the respective electoral regions. Art. 2 6 The Electoral Commission, informing the Board of Directors, will be responsible for deliberating on matters inherent to the slate formation process that are not covered by these Regulations. Ponta Grossa, xx August 2023. Marcio Zwierewicz Popke Ferdinand Van Der Vinne Chairman of the Board of Directors Vice -president e