CREDIT COOPERATIVE OF VALE DO TAJAl AND LITORAL CATARINENSE — SICREDI VALE LITORAL SC CNPJ no. Vale Litoral SC, using the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the napleo delegates, who on this date total 41 (Forty-one), to meet in an ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on the 30th (thirty) of March 2022, at 7 (seven) hours, in first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in second call, at 8 (eight) hours, with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 9 (nine) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the Cooperative's headquarters, located at Rua/Av. Terceira, n.° 503, corner Rua 250, Bairro Meia Praia, in this city, for all delegates, simultaneously, using the Penencer Tool* accessed through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleias, to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Accountability relating to the fiscal year ending on December 31st 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) demonstrative of leftovers; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Destination of leftovers. 3. Approval of the Belong Regulation. 4. Homologation of the Social Fund Regulations. 5. Ratiﬂcation of the Expansion Fund Regulation. 6. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Itapema, March 18, 2022. Sundays of ndrade President Classification of information Internal use NOTES: 1. The Assembly will be held in digital format, the modality of which is supported by art. 43-A of Law 5764/71, as well as in DREI Normative Instruction no. 81, of June 10, 2020. 2. *| instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: delegates must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleias, registering and identifying themselves with their CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. Detailed instructions for registration and access to the General Assembly will be made available to delegates via email or WhatsApp). 3. The Assembly will be recorded electronically. "This Notice was posted on the UA wall from 03/18/2022 to 03/31/2022. Name Signature Name Signature Name Signature Classification of information: Internal Use