Report 2022 • Sicredi Vale Litoral SCThere is an alternative. The best for one can be the best for all.sicredi.c om.br Your choices today can generate a better future for you and for many people. By choosing Sicredi, you have close and human service, in person and digitally, fair rates and ideal financial solutions for your life. And, when you grow, you also generate growth for everyone around you, because we reinvest resources in your region. Open an account with us.Choose Sicr edi, where money makes you a better world. Point the camera on your cell phone and find out more. MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 04 MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 06 WHO WE ARE Sicredi 08 Presence in Brazil 09 Our Cooperative 10 OUR AGENCIES 12 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 14 OUR NUMBERS 15 EXPANSION New Agencies 16 Standardization and Expansion 17 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 18 MEETINGS 20 BUSINESSES Shares and Partnerships 22 Person Physics 24 Person Legal 26 Condominiums 28 Verão Premiado 29 PEOPLE MANAGEMENT 30 COMMUNITY 35 SummarySummary File: Texts: Larissa Claas Images: Image bank and files Sicredi Layout: Made Propaganda 3Message from the president Sicredi Associates Vale Litoral SC The United Nations – UN – has Cooperatives were highly valued because they saw, in this business system, a fairer and more sustainable society. Where there is cooperativism, there is dissemination of values, there is strengthening relationships between people. Cooperativism is present in 118 countries around the world; there are more than three hundred and seventy million people associated. In the United States, cooperatives have a penetration of more than 58% and in Canada, more than 42%. These are two countries with a high level of development and appreciation of people. We are 10 million cooperative Brazilians. In more than 50% of Brazilian municipalities, cooperativism is known and has agencies. There are more than seven thousand and three hundred cooperative agencies in Brazil. Sicredi is part of this cooperative complex with more than five and a half million members. You are one of them. You are part of this avalanche that has been transforming the lives of communities. Human beings become important as they build something that positively influences society. You do this when you participate! During these two years of the pandemic, you were an indispensable link in this participation and, sometimes, you didn't even realize the how much you contributed to all this change and transformation in our societies. Together, we have allowed many small entrepreneurs to build their businesses, extending their credits, publicizing their products, disseminating the value policy of products manufactured in the community, in short, we help to develop our communities. So, thank you, associate, for your participation, which is fundamental and constructive for all the people who live with us. You can go to your children and grandchildren that you are building a more just and humane society for everyone. On behalf of the Board of Directors, thank you very much! José Domingos de Andrade President of Sicredi Vale Litoral SC Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 45Sicredi Vale Litoral SC6Arão João da Silva Neto Executive Director of Sicredi Vale Litoral SC Message from the board of directors I begin this message by addressing our more than 50 thousand members. We are immensely proud and grateful for everything we have built together in these 14 years of Sicredi Vale Litoral SC. But, along with this pride, I also share a great challenge that our cooperative has taken on as a vision for the next five years: becoming the main financial institution for our members. When we talk about the main financial institution, we are not saying that we want to be the only one, but rather, the most remembered, the most beloved, the one that provides differentiated service, according to the reality of each city and neighborhood where we are located. we are included. Being the main financial institution means that we are fulfilling the objectives of creating this cooperative, back in 2006, in the Itapema Business Center. At the time, the founding partners decided to build a credit cooperative to meet the needs and provide close and human service to businesspeople and the community. Being the main financial institution also means that members are increasingly realizing the positive impacts that our cooperative leaves on society, whether through our numerous social projects, or through actions to encourage the local economy, and even through the active participation of our employees in the community. And yet, no less important, being the main financial institution for members means helping to make dreams come true, being available to members at alternative times, providing consultancy, understanding the needs of each person or company. It is, in short, being simple, close and active. To achieve this vision, we are structuring ourselves with beautiful and modern agencies, expanding our area of ​​activity and investing heavily in our team of employees. Therefore, I invite members and future members to experience our cooperative more and more. Come with us. Try the Sicredi Vale Litoral Way of Ser. Arão João da Silva Neto Executive Director Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 7Who We Are SICREDI Nice to meet you, we are Sicredi! The first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. Our business model builds a value chain that benefits the member, the cooperative and the local community. For 120 years we have been operating with the aim of making our associates grow and prosper. Each of the affiliated cooperatives is part of the five central shareholders of SicrediPar, the holding company that coordinates our strategic decisions. We also have specialized comments in our structure that rationalize our activities, such as Confederação Sicredi, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, Fundação Sicredi, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and its controlled companies — Administradorade Bens, Sicredi Cartões, Administradora de Consórcios and Corretora de Seguros —, located in Porto Alegre (RS), at the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). Our Mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of associates and society. Sicredi Vale Litoral SCNet profit of 2.7 billion 5.5 million members 2.2 thousand branches more than 100 cooperatives 5 centers + 30 thousand employees in all regions of Brazil More than 300 financial solutions R$ 197.6 billion in assets R$25.2 billion in equity R$129.5 billion in total deposits R$133 billion in balance in credit portfolioPresence IN BRAZIL 87% of the municipalities where we are present have less than 100 thousand inhabitants We are the only financial institution in more than 200 municipalities in the country AMRR PA TO GODF MG ES RJ SPMS PR SC RSBAPICERN PB PE AL SEMAAP AC RO MT 9A Sicredi Vale Litoral SC is one of the 108 regional cooperatives that use the Sicredi brand. It has an area of ​​activity that covers 28 municipalities, is present in 13 cities and has 24 branches. In 2021 it reached the milestone of more than 50 thousand members and 370 employees. We were born in 2008 from an initiative of businesspeople from the Itapema Business Center – made up of the Itapema Commercial Association, Chamber of Retail Managers, Sindicomércio and Sinduscom who had the desire to establish a cooperative financial institution, which would encourage the growth and development of companies, institutions and people. A story built by people who believe in the transformative power of cooperatives. We began our activities on October 10th of this same year, with 317 founding partners. It's been 13 years contributing to collective and sustainable development, creating jobs and promoting the local economy in the communities where we operate. Balneário Camboriú, Blumenau, Bombinhas, Brusque, Camboriú, Guabiruba, Itapema, Itajaí, Navegantes, Nova Trento, Porto Belo, Tijucas and Timbó.Our Cooperative PRESENT IN THE VALES AND ON THE COAST OF SC Presence of Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 24 Branches and 1 Office Relationship Total Resources 1.8 Billion Equity Net 194 Million Assets 2.1 Billion Credit Portfolio 1.04 Billion Savings 221 Million Result 45,373 Members 51,285 Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 10 Project for the future Regional Headquarters of the cooperative in Itapema • SC 11 Sicredi Vale Litoral SC is located in an area that comprises the Valley of the Tijucas River, Vale do Itajaí Mirim and Médio Vale do Itajaí Açu, in addition to the northern coast of Santa Catarina between the cities of Bombinhas and Navegantes.Our Agencies SICREDI VALE LITORAL SC Network of service Service network Balneário Camboriú Av. dos Estados, 4910 • Estados • 47. 3263-6800 Av. dos Estados, 2450 • Estados • 47. 3169-2800 Blumenau Rua São Paulo, 65 • Centro • 47. 3221-9100 Rua Frei Estanislau Schaette, 106 • Água Verde • 47. 3328-9800 Bombinhas Av. Ver. Manoel José dos Santos, 1144 • Centro • 47. 3393-9900 Rua Siriri, 590 • Bombas • 47. 3393-9950 Rua Baleia Jubarte, 242 • Room 06 • Pumps • 47. 3393-8300 | Brusque Relationship School Rua Rodrigues Alves, 247 • Centro • 47. 3355-4444 Rua Martin Luther, 135 • Centro (Angeloni) • 47. 3251-7100 Rua Botuverá, 197 • Dom Joaquim • 47. 3255-2600 Camboriú Rua Gustavo Richard, 209 • Centro • 47. 3400-0200 Av. Monte Agulhas Negras, 512 • Monte Alegre • 47. 3365-8500 Guabiruba Rua Brusque, 689 • Centro • 47. 3354-6650 Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 12Itajaí Rua Brusque, 1226 • Dom Bosco • 47. 3390-0000 Rua Estefano José Vanolli, 284 • São Vicente • 47. 3390-7900 Rodovia Antônio Heil, 21100 • Limoeiro Itapema Av. Gov. Celso Ramos, 444 • Centro • 47. 3267-5800 Rua 250, 500 Esq. c/ 3ª Av. • Meia Praia • 47. 3267-1150 Rua 412 A, 265 Esq. c/ Rua 422 • Morretes • 47. 3267- 2600 Navegantes Rua Pedro Francisco de Souza, 913 • São Domingos • 47. 3319-7950 Nova Trento Rua Santo Inácio, 446 • Centro • 48. 3267-3700 Porto Belo Rua Lúcio Joaquim Mendes, 25 • Vila Nova • 47. 3369-7450 Rua Hironildo Conceição dos Santos, 640 • 47. 3369-7100 Tijucas Rua Cel Buchelle, 945, Centro • 48. 3641- 3100 Timbó Rua Germano Brandes Sênior, 740, Centro • 47. 3281-5100 13Who We Are BOARD OF DIRECTORS FISCAL COUNCIL EXECUTIVE BOARDStaff Substitutes José Domingos de Andrade President Roderjan Diehl Volaco Vice-president Edson José Mathias Director Representative of Itapema Fernando José de Oliveira Director Representative of Nova Trento, Brusque and Guabiruba José Altamiro Pereira Councilor Representative of Balneário Camboriú, Camboriú, Itajaí and Navegantes. Arão João da Silva Neto Executive DirectorIrene Dotto Director Miranda Klann Alternate Director Leandro Cesar Hunhoff Director Representative of Porto Belo and Tijucas Renato de Mello Viero Director of Operations Jofrei Agnes Munaro Ger. Regional DevelopmentMárcio José Bertoldo Advisor Alessandra Lucia Viccari Alternate Advisor Sylvio Roberto Gumz Advisor Representative of BombinhasAndré Luiz Daroci Advisor Fernanda Maria Liebert Alternate AdvisorValmir Müller Advisor Representative of Blumenau and Timbó Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 14118.8 mi851.8 mi 576 mi461 mi 26.4 mi37.6 91 152.5 mi1.34 bi 995 mi657 mi 26.4 mi51,285 42,489 194.0 mi1.8 bi 1.3 bi1, 0bi 45.3 miFollowing the main guidelines of cooperativism, in particular “transparency in management”, we present the economic-financial and patrimonial situation of the Cooperative. The growth achieved reflects our work aimed at growth and expansion. When we compare These numbers compared to previous years, it is clear how we are building a solid cooperative, based on a relationship of trust with members and other stakeholders who interact with Sicredi Vale Litoral SC. ASSOCIATES SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITYTOTAL DEPOSITS TOTAL DEPOSITS CREDIT OPERATIONS SURPLUS Consolidating the positive impact of credit cooperatives on regional growth, Sicredi Vale Litoral SC continued the expansion process in Santa Catarina over the course of 2021. There was an increase in the service network with the opening of four new points during the year. Maintaining a solid growth rate, which made it possible to be physically close to a greater number of members. This project has the mission of contributing to collective and sustainable development, in the countryside and in the city, in which members and society in general gain in quality of life, job creation and promotion of the local economy. In this sense, we are committed to strengthening the regions where we are already present in Santa Catarina, as well as taking credit cooperatives to new areas. Check out our new branches:• Perequê Porto Belo Agency, opened in January 2021. It has 300m² of built area. • Guabiruba Agency, opened on December 16, 2021. It has 360m² of built area. • Tijucas Agency, opened on January 27, 2022, has 440m² of built area. New Agencies EXPANSION PROJECT • Avenida do Estado Balneário Camboriú Agency, opened in January 2021, has 450m² of built area. Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 16• Vila Nova Agency in Porto Belo, reopened on July 27, 2021. • Morretes Agency in Itapema, reopened on June 29, 2021. • Nova Trento Agency, reopened on December 15, 2021. Standardization and modernization We value our associates, therefore, expansion and renovation projects follow the schedule along with the expansion, with the aim of delivering new, larger, more modern and complete spaces. Our System continues to be among the most recognized. Check out the main awards of 2021: Forbes 7th country position in the World’s Best Banks 2021 ranking. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. Valor Econômico The institution ranked 9th in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook.by companies or institutions.Valor Large Groups Repeating the feat of previous years, Sicredi was highlighted in the yearbook Valor Grandes Grupos, prepared by the newspaper Valor Econômico, which presents an analysis of the 200 main companies operating in the country. services and finance. Finance Mais We achieved a prominent position in the Finance Mais ranking, published by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo in partnership with the credit risk rating agency Austin Rating.Guia Valor de Fundos de Investimento With strategies that value long-term assets, profitability as well above your benchmarks and active management, funds from different risk and volatility categories, Sicredi has managed to remain among the top 20% since 2019 as assessed by Valor Econômico's Guia Valor de Fundos de Investimento.Best and Biggest In the Exame Melhores & Maiores 2021 guide, through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, one of the structures that make up the cooperative financial institution, Awards and recognitions Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 18BNDES Recognition The good performance of Sicredi in the credit lines made available by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) in 2020, to minimize the impacts of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, was recognized by the “Project Incentives for Financial Agents” Prisma Fiscal Prisma Fiscal is a system for collecting market expectations, created and managed by the Economic Policy Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, to monitor the evolution of the main fiscal variables Brazilian companies from the perspective of important private sector analysts. FGV Fund Guide Award Sicredi, through its Asset, won first place in the Money Market category for Specialist Assets in the 2021 edition of the FGV Fund Guide Banking Transformation Award The award given to encourage and value initiatives by financial institutions, contributing to the improvement of the sector, the winning case was the 'Implementation of Whatsapp Enterprise + Theo', from Sicredi.Agtech Garage Award Sicredi was the winner of the AgTech Garage Awards, an award given by one of the largest innovation hubs in Latin America for agribusiness, AgTech Garage. GPTW Certification In August 2021, Sicredi became a company certified by GPTW, being able to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking that lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. With an approval rate of 88%, the fact of being jpa certified proves to be a important achievement for a company of Sicredi’s size and breadth. WYCUP - World Council Young Credit Union People Sicredi was featured in the World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup), a program that recognizes young leaders for significant contributions to their communities and credit unions and who have the potential to make a global impact. The event was part of another edition of the Woccu ​​World Conference (World Council of Credit Cooperatives, in the translation of the acronym in English), held between the 14th and 21st of July, which took place virtually due to the pandemic.Época 360 Época Negócios 360°, guide prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral. 19Assemblies 2021 Member participation in the management of the cooperative. The highlight of Sicredi's participatory model are the assemblies. In 2021, the cooperative brought together more than 1,300 members, in digital format. In deliberative meetings, members approved the provision of the Institution's accounts, the proposed distribution of results, elected new members of the Fiscal Council bodies and other matters of interest to the membership. What are assemblies? Assemblies are annual events that take place throughout the region where we operate and are a differentiator of our cooperative model. It is an opportunity to put your role as owner into practice, deciding the direction of the cooperative together with other members, in a democratic and transparent way. Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 20SICREDI BUSINESSES WITH ASSOCIATES Partnership with Rural Producers Our purpose is to maintain a close relationship with our associates, for this reason and because we know the reality of rural producers and work in the field, we work to offer the best financial solutions, in addition to products and services that help with risk management. By contributing to development in rural areas, we boost regional economic growth. Sicredi Associado Award-Winning Insurance Sicredi Vale Litoral is awarded in Life Insurance. In addition to providing members with life insurance, we are cooperating with their safety and peace of mind, as our insurance has numerous benefits that can be enjoyed while they are still alive, one of which is the weekly draw that includes members from all over Brazil. It is a low-cost investment that has a return and support in the most unexpected moments. Financing for Sustainable Energy The increase in demand for financing for the acquisition of solar energy has been registered by Sicredi. Solar energy has proven to be a viable alternative for many people, both due to its sustainability and the savings generated. Being part of cooperativism is being part of a big business to grow together. Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 22Public Consigned Credit Disclosure Action The cooperative carried out an action to publicize public consigned credit. The main objective of the action was present to the public of interest the characteristics and advantages of the consigned product, in addition, bring solutions that enable the portability of credit operations in force in other financial institutions, with the possibility of a rate lower than the current rate of credit in force. New PF Digital Transformation platform In 2021 we advanced on the Digital Transformation journey, with the launch of new channels, platforms and services that allow more agility to processes, and facilitate communication with our associates. After all, this has been one of the main objectives of the System and the Cooperative: moving at the same pace as changes and promoting positive experiences, without losing our cooperative essence. • Services • Cars • Real Estate • Machinery and Equipment • Sustainable • And much more Whatever your goal, we can achieve it together. Simulate at sicredi.c om.br /consorcios and hire at your agency. The alternative that makes your business easier achievements. You are more than a customer: you are an associate and part of the business. Therefore, when you join Sicredi, you acquire your capital share - an amount that you invest when opening your account and that generates income as the solutions are used. Being a member makes all the difference, as in addition to having complete financial solutions at fair prices, you cooperate with the development of your region, can participate in meetings, follow the activities of your cooperative and participate in decisions through voting in assemblies. Furthermore, depending on the use of the solutions and the results of the cooperative, you receive your share in the distribution of the financial results.Products and Services INDIVIDUAL Current Account Cards Personal credit for vehicles, consigned loans, advance payments and others Savings Term deposit, funds and other investments Insurance Consortiums Pix DDA Private Pension Sicredi Virtual Card Vale Litoral SC 24Products and Services Running a business is like this: every time there is an appointment, a meeting, an important decision to make. Therefore, to resolve the financial aspect of your company, count on us. After all, when your company develops, it generates jobs and income and strengthens the local economy, everyone grows together. To cooperate with your cash flow, we have credit with fair rates. For your daily life, management and organization tools. And, of course, solutions to support your company's growth. Come with us, open your account with Sicredi. LEGAL ENTITY Current Account Cards Credit Card Machine Home Banking Investments Insurance Consortiums Exchange Pix DDA Virtual Card Payment to Suppliers Billing 27Our story begins in 2008, we approached the condominiums in our region to study their specific financial needs of this segment. It was then that we built a close and personalized service for our condominiums and their administrators. The approval of Registration slips are quick and easy. Here the programmer talks to the programmer. The administration has the possibility of viewing all accounts under management in a single access and with a single user. It is also possible to send payment slip files for all condominiums at once. This also occurs with return files and it is not necessary to access the account to find out if the bills were paid.Products and Services CONDOMINIUMS Special Account for condominiums. Zero cost for tickets. Zero cost for TED /DOC Relationship Basket of R$ 29.90 Consult the conditions with your manager. *To access the relationship basket of R$ 29.90, the condominium must have a minimum investment of R$ 500.00 in Sicredinvest (CDI) The original value of the basket is R$ 39.90. Conditions valid exclusively for Sicredi Vale Litoral SC.ZERO agencies Did you ever imagine it would be worth so much? Sicredi Vale Litoral SCPromotion AWARD-WINNING SUMMER Ag. Meia Praia Itapema Ag. Baln Flag Square. Camboriú Ag. Bombas Bombinhas Ag. Centro Blumenau Ag. Centro Brusque Ag. Dom Bosco Itajaí Ag. Vila Nova Porto Belo Ag. Nova Trento Ag. Morretes Itapem a Ag. Centro Bombinhas Ag. Água V erde Blumenau Ag. Centro Camboriú Ag. Angeloni Brusque Ag. São Vicente Itajaí Ag. Centro Itapem to Ag. Timbó Ag. Dom Joaquim Centro Ag. Monte Alegre Camboriú Ag. Limoeiro Itajaí Ag. Navegantes Ag. Request Porto Belo Ag. Av. from Baln State. Camboriú Ag. Bombas Bombinhas Ag. Vila Nova Porto Belo Ag. Request a request Porto Belo Ag. Dom Bosco ItajaíTeleviso r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television r Television Television r Television r Television r Motorcycle Motorcycle Motorcycle CarElaine M. P . Ribeiro Fabricio Salazar RDG Pharma L tda F&C Empreitera de Mão de Obra Ltda ME Bruscor Ind. E Com. Ltda Mariluze Melo Moutinho Água Rara Ar tigos Espor tivos Ltda ME Luciano Ferreira Rocha Joabe Gonçalve s La Martina Incorporadora L tda. Tatiana Germano de Moraes Aline Giseli dos Santos Iliane Nadir de Oliveira Silvana Trojahn Benjamin Residence SPE Lt da Gelindo Andreazza Devegili Fabiola Fa gundes V echi Paróquia Sr. Bom Jesus Carlos M. da Silva Maicon Dalle Ore Bic a Impermac Construtora L tda. Arlindo Sandr i Mara Liane Koch Maic a Airton Barnabe Vanessa Minatt i Osvaldo Arruda de Almeid the 29th The third edition of the Verão Premiado promotion started in December 2020 and, until April 2021, it was valid for individual and legal members who purchased savings, investments and funds products. When carrying out financial operations, members received scratch cards with instant prizes and coupons to compete in the final draw, with the main prize being a brand new car. As a result, we distributed more than 2000 awards in our agencies, with members receiving awards in all the municipalities where we operate. check out Below is a complete list of the members included in the promotion. People Management We are made of people for people. The Sicredi System achieved the international GPTW (Great Place to Work) certification, as one of the best companies to work for in the country. The collaborative environment and the appreciation of human potential are part of the DNA of our system, shared by its more than 100 cooperatives. More than 30 thousand employees, who work to make a difference in the lives of people and communities served by Sicredi. Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 30People Management Seminar Remote meetings predominated in 2021. Despite the distance, we continued to invest in training that brought technical and behavioral knowledge to our team. We held the Vale Litoral TBT, a seminar that recalled some notable themes held in the cooperative, such as: Sicredi way of being, integration and cooperativism, good practices in social networks, relationships, strategic pillars of our cooperative, cooperation and teamwork, and, finally, our skills. Future Movement Program In order to promote professional learning and the opportunity for a first job, the Cooperative launched, in 2018, the Movimento Program Future. The program's main objective is the training and professional guidance of young people to enter the job market. From this program, young people compete for vacancies, and becoming a Young Apprentice at Sicredi Vale Litoral SC, in addition to being available to companies in the region. The Movimento Futuro Program has already included 120 young participants, in eight municipalities in Vale do Itajaí and Litoral Catarinense, since its launch, in addition to being available to companies in the region. Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 32Relationship Workshop In October 2021 we held a relationship workshop for our employees, there were eight face-to-face meetings of alignments on this important topic for the cooperative. The following topics were discussed at the meetings: service standards, member experience and business x relationship intelligence. 33Community We are present. When we join forces, we multiply cooperation. Being close to people and communities is one of the characteristics of our business model. In addition to understanding and serving our members, we support the places where we are present through social initiatives and what we call Sicredi’s virtuous development cycle. One of our jobs is to raise funds from members and lend them to other members in the same region. Thus, the permanence of financial values ​​in the locality has a positive impact, generating income and sustainable growth for everyone, with a greater supply of jobs, products, services and economic development. This way, members can invest more and more in the Cooperative, and everyone grows together. 35National Financial Education Week Sicredi takes cinema bus to schools in the region During the month of November, more than 1,900 children from public and private schools in 12 municipalities in the region had the opportunity to watch videos at the traveling cinema, especially the series of films from Turma da Mônica produced for Sicredi on the topic of Financial Education. The action took place in Itapema, Bombinhas, Porto Belo, Nova Trento, Itajaí, Navegantes, Camboriú, Balneário Camboriú, Brusque, Tijucas, Blumenau and Timbó. The cooperative believes that it is essential to start financial education from early childhood education, we understand that if children have knowledge from an early age of how important money is and what precautions they should take, they will soon be applying their knowledge correctly, thus improving their quality of life. School Cooperative The School Cooperative, called Coop Reis, founded in 2018, in Itapema, by Escola Vereador Paulo Reis carried out some activities this past year, including learning workshops, in addition to the project “together for a better school.” Students were able to participate in some workshops, including: sustainability, cooperativism, self-knowledge and ethical stance. The meetings or workshops take place after school hours, but are aligned with the curriculum and political pedagogical plan of the school in which the cooperative is located. School cooperatives are a character initiative educational, constituted by the voluntary union of primary and secondary school students and with the mediation of a guiding teacher. CoopReis Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 36Local Economy We support the “I Cooperate with the Local Economy” campaign. A collaborative initiative that aims to encourage the consumption of regional products and services. In 2021, the movement arrived on the coast, with most beach stalls joining the campaign. Rua do Cooperativism Sicredi de Bombinhas, together with the power public, opened the cooperative street in 2021. With 400 m2, the street is located in front of the Sicredi branch in Bombinhas, on Avenida Vereador Manoel dos Santos. A cultural reference space for the community. 37Sports Motivated to invest in health and provide quality of life for our members, we are frequent supporters of sporting initiatives, such as: futsal, football, cycling, skateboarding, beach tennis, among others. And the big news of 2021 is that we were official sponsors of the Santa Catarina beach volleyball championship, in Itapema. Sicredi Vale Litoral SC 38Day C - Cooperation Day Action developed by Sicredi Vale Litoral SC benefits 3,000 socially vulnerable families with more than 20 tons of food collected. This year, Cooperate Day, a movement organized nationally by the Brazilian Cooperative Organization (OCB), which mobilizes the segment with the objective of developing social responsibility actions, putting into practice the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, it sought to help society minimize the impacts of hunger, by collecting food. The cooperative, in partnership with markets and commercial establishments in the region, collected around 20 tons of non-perishable food. The campaign began on July 3rd and ended on July 24th. During this period, Sicredi agencies received donations in their respective units. You The food collected was distributed to social institutions and families living in a state of social vulnerability in the region. 39Talk to your manager or access this sicr edi.c om.br /investimentos Why invest with us? Only here does your money pay off: Growth We have a broad portfolio and personalized service. Security We are a ﬁnancial institution over 115 years old. Practicality Our application allows total control of your investments. Development We reinvest in your region, boosting the local economy. Invest with Sicredi. Here your investment yields more than money.SAVINGS INVESTMENT FUNDS FIXED INCOME PENSION Whatever your reason, investing with Sicr edi is the best alternative.