1 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Annual Report Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP 2021 2 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP 2 Annual Report 2021 office hours GENERAL COORDINATION Communication and Marketing Department RESPONSIBLE JOURNALIST Michael Bueno (DRT /PR 8140) SUPPORT AND REVIEW Arlany Andrade (Cooperative Development Area Coordinator) DESIGN, EDITING AND REVIEW Bebop Comunicação and Marketing Anderson Costa Positive Graphic Printing PRINTING 300 copies ANNUAL REPORT 2021 SICREDI PLANALTO DAS ÁGUAS PR/SPMESSAGE FROM THE LEADERSHIP ................................. .......................... 04 OUR COOPERATIVE/OUR CENTER .................. .............. 08 »Profile ................................. .................................................... .................... 08 »Regional operations .......................... .................................................... .... 09 »Sicredi .................................................... ............................................. 14 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION . ............................................. 16 REPORT ADMINISTRATION ............................................... 19 ASSEMBLY................................................. ...................................... 21 »Accountability to Members ..... ..................................... 22 GOVERNANCE .................................................... ..................................... 24 THÉO IS READY TO HELP YOU ...... ..................... 26 OPEN FINANCE .......................... .................................................... ............ 28 TIME TO CELEBRATE: WE ARE GPTW ............................ ......... 30 SICREDI HOLDS ENVIRONMENT WEEK ............. 32 SICREDI AND SMURFS ............. .................................................... ............... 34 CRESCER PROJECT ............................................... ............................... 36 FINANCIAL EDUCATION ................ .................................................. 38 FRANK CONVERSATION ................................................ ........................... 42 WOMEN’S DIGNITY ................... ............................................... 43 UNION PROGRAM MAKES LIFE ............................................... .... 44 DAY C .................................................... .................................................... ...... 54 AWARDED SAVINGS .............................................. ........................... 62 SOLAR ENERGY ................... .................................................... .............. 64 SICREDI OPENS NEW SPACE IN ENTRE RIOS .......... 66 LGPD ................ .................................................... ...................................... 68 STORIES THAT CONNECT .................................................. ......... 70 SERVICE NETWORK ..................................... .............................. 72 SummarySummary4 ​​Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Message from the President In 2021, the actions social services played a fundamental role in the communities where we operate. ENEF week with volunteers providing financial education to different audiences, from children to adults. C-Day with movement calling society to help the most vulnerable. Highlights include 7 new municipalities that will develop the methodology of the A União faz a Vida Program from 2022 onwards. Women's Committee carried out local actions focusing on collecting sanitary pads for teenagers and women in vulnerable situations – an action that became law in some municipalities. Sustainability fronts (we held Environment Week with a focus on publicizing the differences in the acquisition of renewable energy) and Innovation also had relevance on the cooperative's agenda during 2021. Many restrictions on holding face-to-face meetings, as in the case of Assemblies. A moment of adaptation and transformation that made it possible to experiment with new ways, including the holding of Assemblies, for the first time in history, in digital format, in which Associates were able to deliberate on the future of the cooperative enterprise through online voting. One of the main topics was the renewal of members of the Board of Directors, when the succession of the positions of president and vice-president was approved. After being approved by the Central Bank of Brazil, I was sworn in as president of the Cooperative. I am an entrepreneur from Guarapuava, with a long history of working on fiscal and administrative councils. Special thanks and recognition to the 2021 Annual Report 5 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Fabio Peterlini President Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP Center Advisors and Coordinators for the partnership and services provided throughout the year. It is an honor to be able to contribute to the growth of this business model that challenges us to be better every day. A moment of overcoming in which the cooperative remained increasingly closer to its Employees and Associates. Our main differentiator is the relationship, for this it is essential that our employees are safe so that we can meet the needs of our customers. Associates. An atypical year that allowed our personal and collective development, always with the aim of understanding and meeting the needs of Associates, showing that we are the best alternative for their financial lives and also contributing to a more prosperous society. Lots of information available to Associates: transparency that promotes participation. We appreciate the trust of each Associate who carries out their financial operations in the Cooperative. Happy reading!6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Message from the Executive Director In 2021 we realized that our way of being closer to our Members contributed to the continued growth of performance indicators, which allowed the cooperative, within the criteria of the System Sicredi, reached Size III, with more than R$ 1 billion in managed resources (R$ 1,074,473.00). It was also evident that Associates were more concerned about investing their money, increasing total deposits by 27%, compared to the same period in 2020, and ensured that we had 5 Members drawn in the Sicredi Premiada Savings Promotion. In the Credit portfolio, between Commercial and Rural, the portfolio expanded by 67%, reaching more than R$700 million. 15% increase in the Member base, ending the year with 31,635 Members, divided into 16 Branches, in the cooperative's areas of action, in the central region of Paraná and northwest of São Paulo. The accumulated result of 2021, compared to the previous year, it grew 47.9% (R$ 14.6 Million in 2020, to R$ 21.6 Million in 2021). The expansion plan in the service network continues and the projection is 4 more branches for 2022, 1 in Paraná and 3 in São Paulo. We had an increase in the number of employees, which went from 196, at the end of 2021 Annual Report 7 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP of 2020, to 238 professionals in 2021, working to better serve and guarantee a differentiated experience for Associates. Highlight is the study by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ which suggested an organizational review, even recommending the creation of new areas in the Cooperative. After 10 years of arrival in the Entre Rios District, a new agency was delivered, with more than 700 square meters available to Associates. Delivery that also marked the celebrations of the 70th anniversary of the founding of the District of Guarapuava. There are countless indicators that show how close we are and ensuring that Associates are well served, seeking to understand and meet, in a consultative manner, each financial need, contributing to the achievement of each one's objectives. A special thank you to our Employees, Associates and everyone who, on a daily basis, puts into practice our purpose of building more prosperous societies in all the regions in which we operate. Valmir Dzivielevski Executive Director Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Our Cooperative was founded on August 10, 1983 under the name Credipuava, through the initiative of 32 founding partners with the main objective of meeting the need for resources to promote rural activities. We are one of the first Cooperatives to join the Sicredi System, changing its name to Sicredi Tercero Planalto PR. In this way, we become part of a national system, with specialized companies and instruments financial resources that increase the security of our members and strengthen our local operations. 1st External Service Point, Candói, 1997 1st Service Point with the Sicredi brand, Guarapuava, 1998 Founded on August 10, 1983Our cooperative Annual Report 2021 9 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP 010203 06 04 07 08 05Agencies in the state of Paraná 1. Candói 2. Guarapuava 3. Manoel Ribas 4. Palmital 5. Pinhão 6. Pitanga 7. Santa Maria do Oeste 8. Turvo 03 0402 0105 Agencies in the state de São Paulo 1. Votuporanga 2. Fernandópolis 3. Mira Estrela 4. Jales 5. Santa Fé do Sul10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Performance IndicatorsRESULT (Millions of Reais) 15.1 201914.6 202021.6 2021 +47.9% Annual Report 2021 11 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Commercial Credit, Rural Credit and Co-obligations (BRDE and BNDES) Active, permanent, co-obligations and savings. Term deposit, demand deposit, savings, funds, share capital, pension plan, reserves, LCA and accumulated surplusSAVING ASSOCIATES DEPOSITS (Millions of Reais) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Millions of Reais)ASSETS (Millions of Reais)CREDIT (Millions of Reais)23,637 339,116,481 622431.2 104.52019 20192019 20192019 20 1927.308 419,418.083 847.3652.8 119.32020 12 Annual Report 021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Commercial Credit, Rural Credit and Co-obligations (BRDE and BNDES)a(billions of R$) Active, permanent, co-obligations and savings. Sicredi Planalto das Águas Ambitions for 2022 Assets (billions of R$) Credit (millions of R$) Net worth (millions of R$) R$ 809.8R$ 1,482 R$ 172,753Members Deposits 36,700R$ 1,146 Term deposit, deposit at view, savings, funds, share capital, pension, reserves, LCA and accumulated surplusStrategic Planning In November, the Cooperative's leaders (President and Vice, Executive Board, Agency Managers, Area Managers and Advisors) came together to build the Strategic Planning, predicting the growth of the Cooperative Financial Institution in the coming years. A moment of great inspiration and sharing to overcome the proposed challenges.Annual Report 2021 13 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Expansion Palmeira D' Oeste|SP In 2022 we plan to open 4 more service points: Campina do Simão in the Paraná region , in addition to Palmeira D´Oeste, Estrela D´Oeste and Nhandeara in the northwest region of São Paulo. In 2021, land was also acquired for the construction of the new Administrative Headquarters of the Cooperative, which will also have another service branch in Guarapuava PR. Agency expected to open by the end of the first half of 2022. It will be the only Financial Institution branch in the location. The work is 250 square meters. With 396 square meters, the Sicredi de Palmeira D ́Oeste SP agency has forecast to open by the end of the first half of 2022. Land with more than 5.5 thousand square meters, located in Guarapuava, on the corner of Avenida Dr. Aragão Mattos Leão Filho and Avenida Prefeito Moacir Júlio Silvestre, was acquired for the construction of the Headquarters Administrative and will have an agency to serve the public. Campina do Simão|PRNew Administrative Headquarters14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Sicredi Mission As a cooperative system, value the relationship, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Values ​​- Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business - Respect for individuality of the member - Valuing and developing people - Preservation of the institution as a system - Respect for official and internal standards - Efficiency and transparency in management We are a cooperative financial institution committed to strengthening the financial and quality of life of our members and to development of the regions where we operate. Today, we are present in 25 states and the Federal District, with more than 2,100 branches, and we provide more than 300 financial products and services. Our cooperatives are organized in a national system, forming a support network that reduces risks and strengthens our local operations. We have specialized companies and financial instruments that offer security, credibility and reliability to members across the country. More information: www.sicredi.com.brEach of our cooperatives has administrative and financial autonomy to operate locally, generating value for our communities. Our management model values ​​the role of associates as owners of the business, encouraging participation in decisions and sharing the final results.Annual Report 2021 15 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP SICREDI PRESENCE IN BRAZIL + 5.5 million associates+ 2,200 service points + 30,000 employees who know our members closely R$ 197.6 billion in assets reinvested in the community 25 states and the Federal District + 100 affiliated credit cooperativesR$ 25.2 billion in net equity of all for all Legend Sicredi National Presence Sicredi National Presence expanding Sicredi National Presence Sicredi National Presence expanding *numbers relative to the end of December.16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Forbes In 2021, Sicredi ranked seventh in the country in the World's Best Banks 2021 ranking, prepared by Forbes in partnership with the banking company Statista statistics. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. The survey, of a popular nature, took into account the opinion of 43 thousand respondents, from 28 different countries and evaluated institutions based on general satisfaction and recommendation, based on the elements of trust, terms and conditions, customer service, digital services and financial consultancy. Participants indicated the financial institutions where they have or have previously had a current account or savings and then answered a detailed questionnaire, giving grades based on their experience. Best and Biggest 2021 In the Exame Melhores & Maiores 2021 guide, through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, one of the structures that make up the cooperative financial institution, it ranked 15th among the Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Prepared since 1974, the yearbook, which this year has a partnership with Ibmec, brings together the largest companies in Brazil based on the evaluation of economic-financial criteria, growth and adoption of ESG practices. Época Negócios 360o 2021 In 2021, Sicredi ranked 8th in the Banks sector ranking, a position influenced by its 2nd place ranking in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. Awards and recognition Broadcast Projections Award Sicredi had highlighted in the Broadcast Projeções Award. The institution ranked 6th in the General Top and 7th in the Basic Top. In its 15th edition, the award is based on the AE Projeções ranking and aims to reward institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators come closest to reality. GPTW Certificate In August 2021, Sicredi became a certified company by GPTW, being eligible to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking that lists the best companies to work in Brazil. With an approval rate of 88%, being JPA certified proves to be an important achievement for a company of Sicredi's size and scope.Annual Report 2021 17 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Value 1000 2021 The institution ranked 9th place in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. Furthermore, Sicredi also stood out in 11 other categories of the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. Among the highlights, it ranked 4th among the 20 most profitable on assets and 7th in Credit Operations, Total Deposits. Prepared by the newspaper Valor Econômico and Serasa Experian, based on data from the 2020 accounting year, Valor 1000 relies on the approval work of the School of Business Administration of Fundação Getúlio Vargas (Eaesp/FGV). The publication provides complete information about the largest companies in Brazil, with comparable rankings, consolidated financial statements, gross revenue and other strategic items taken from the balance sheets or reported by companies or institutions. Valor Investe With strategies that value long-term assets, profitability well above their benchmarks and active management, funds from different risk and volatility categories, Sicredi have managed to remain among the top 20% since 2019 as assessed by the Guia Valor de Fundos de Investment of Economic Value. In the Active Fixed Income category, we stand out with our Fundo Sicredi Institucional FI REF IRF-M from our own resource manager Sicredi Asset, which has more than 56Bi under management and a strong seal from Fitch Ratings. In the Index Shares category, our highlight is the Schroders Sicredi Ibovespa FIA Fund, managed by our partner Schroder Investment Management, which has more than 200 years of history in the financial market and globally manages more than USD 785.1 billion. Top 100 Open Corps In 2021 we appeared for the third time in this ranking that references the 100 most open companies for innovation in Brazil. 100 Open Startups is a platform sponsored by global companies that jointly evaluate and rank startups from around the world. The most attractive startups are selected by large companies to collaborate in the development of high-impact innovations for society and the market. Agtech Garage Award Sicredi was the winner of the AgTech Garage Awards, an award given by one of the largest innovation hubs in Latin America for agribusiness, AgTech Garage. The award-winning case involves the development of a tool for rural management, built in partnerships with the startup Elysios, in the first edition of the startup empowerment program, Intensive Connection. The choice was made through popular vote during the AgTech Meeting 18 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP WYCUP – World Council Young Credit Union People Sicredi was highlighted in the World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup), a program that recognizes young leaders for significant contributions to their communities and credit unions and who have the potential to make a global impact. The event was part of another edition of the Woccu ​​World Conference (World Council of Credit Cooperatives, in the English translation of the acronym). The highlight in 2020 was the recognition won by Sicredi member Vinícius Mattia, aged 26, with the project “Family Farming and Sustainable Food”, which was among the three best initiatives presented by Estadão Finanças Mais 2021 We achieved a prominent position in the Finance Mais ranking, published by the newspaper O Estado of São Paulo in partnership with the credit risk rating agency Austin Rating. Participating in the yearbook through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, Sicredi was ranked 6th place in the “Banks – Financing” category. Finances Mais presents an x-ray of the country's leading institutions in the financial sector, based on an analysis of the financial statements published in their respective balance sheets from the year prior to publication in this year's edition. As a reward, Mattia won a scholarship that includes participation in the 2021 World Credit Union Conference, which will be held in Scotland. On that occasion, Sicredi presented other six cases. In 2021, it was held between the 14th and 21st of July, virtually due to the pandemic. The cooperative financial institution had five winners among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects registered from 13 different countries. The Sicredi associates included were Kelly Lima, from the cooperative Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP, for her support in the construction of the Women's Booklet, addressing the rights of women in situations of cancer and victims of domestic violence; Rafael Lopes, from Sicredi Paranapanema PR/SP, with the campaign “Let's Help Those Who Need It Most”, encouraging donations in support of victims of a strong windstorm in their region; Guilherme de Melo, also associated with Sicredi Paranapanema PR/SP, with his participation in a project that supported the distribution of soap to needy families in his community. Among the Sicredi employees who won the award are Carolina Mussolini, Communications advisor at cooperative Sicredi Rio Paraná PR/SP, with massive dissemination of credit cooperatives, differences and benefits on their social networks, boosting the population's knowledge about the business model; and Ana Goffredo, Business advisor at Sicredi União PR/SP, with the Energia da União project, which promotes the local economy and the production of clean energy through the financing of photovoltaic panels with the cooperative's partners, strengthening the virtuous cycle of cooperation in the community. In recognition of their projects, everyone receives scholarships and a trip, with all expenses paid, to Glasgow, Scotland, to participate in the World Conference of Credit Cooperatives in 2022. Annual Report 2021 19 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Neste document, the administration of the cooperative Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/ SP, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in compliance with legal provisions and statutory provisions, discloses the Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2021, together with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of associates and society. Our traditional credit lines remained active, as well as the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to each person’s needs in resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, application), which made many of our demands viable as these are complete channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches . We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person in all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates.Administration Report20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP _ For the first time in history , the Assemblies and Accountability events, which guarantee the transparency of information with the Members, were held in an online format and had great support from Associates, who deliberated in favor of the future of the cooperative. As a way of encouraging the use of renewable energy, we held Environment Week, in which we provide information on how it is advantageous to invest in photovoltaic panels. We had an increase in the credit portfolio, increasing by 67% compared to the same period in 2021. We also made progress in the investment portfolio, growing around 27%, compared to last year. Expansion to four more branches is planned in 2022: one in Paraná and three in the São Paulo region. _ We expanded our hive, with the A União Faz a Vida Program operating in a further 7 municipalities in the area of ​​operation. We developed actions that highlighted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in accordance with the UN 2030 agenda, especially World SDG Week, where we partnered with the Smurfs to spread awareness about the topic. We held the ENEF Week (National Financial Education Strategy) through 40 workshops with the Cooperative's stakeholders. We delivered 20 thousand copies of Turma da Mônica Jovem to high schools; and 15 thousand from Turma da Mônica for the public in municipal schools. On Day C, the actions were aimed at collecting food and hygiene materials to help the most vulnerable people during the pandemic. Also, led by the Women's Committee, We developed local actions to collect sanitary pads to donate to organizations that serve teenagers, young people and women in difficulty. In some cities, the initiative became municipal law, providing for the donation of sanitary pads on a permanent basis. In 2021, the Growing Program was also carried out with Agency Associates, which had not previously been carried out, a remarkable moment of providing relevant information about the importance of Credit Cooperatives. Expansion planned for four more branches in 2022: one in Paraná and three in the São Paulo region.During this period of recovery, we highlight the following administrative facts:Annual Report 2021 21 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Assemblies In view of the situation we are experiencing, valuing safety and protection of all, we held the assemblies in virtual format so that our members could participate and fulfill their role at this important moment for cooperatives. All associates had the opportunity to participate, vote and interact through a platform that was made available for this purpose, ensuring member participation and transparency in accountability. 22 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Accountability to members The Accountability Report for the first half of 2021 of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP took place at the end of August. On this occasion, the meeting will be held in a mixed way (online and in person), when the core coordinators were invited to participate in person at their respective agencies and the president and directors, at the Administrative Headquarters, in Guarapuava PR. The agenda, which meets one of the values ​​of Cooperatives, which is effectiveness and transparency in management, included the presentation of performance indicators, with emphasis on significant growth in total managed resources (term deposits + demand deposit + savings + funds + Guarapuva Agency/PR Pinhão Agency/PREntre Rios - Guarapuva/PR President Fabio Peterlini Candói Agency/PR Manoel Ribas Agency/PRsocial capital + pension + reserves + LCA + accumulated surplus - 44.2% growth compared to the first half of 2020), in the credit portfolio (Commercial credit + Rural Credit + Coobrigations (BRDE and BNDES) – 43.6% growth compared to the first half of 2020. In the accumulated result, also compared with the first half of 2020, growth of 60.6%. “The increase in numbers demonstrates how the cooperative financial institution is gaining the trust of its Members. We are now recognized as the alternative for a financial life with closer service, fairer rates and committed to the development of communities where the Cooperative presents main indicators and information for the first half of 2021. Annual Report 2021 23 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP we are present”, comments the executive director, Valmir Dzivielevski. To value and promote local commerce, we hold Trader's Week, providing tips to contribute to the development of local traders. We also encourage access and consumption of information on the hotsiteeconomylocalsicredi.com.br “More and more people are realizing the strength of collaboration, cooperation, the union of people and this has been our essence for over 118 years. We believe that the relationship Business Director, Eric Ranullfo Martins Executive Director, Valmir Dzivielevski Agência de Turvo/PRAgência de Palmital/PR Agência de Pitanga/PR Agência de Fernandópolis/SPnext, whether in our agencies, or through channels, and social initiatives that we develop, such as the A União faz a vida Program, is what sets us apart and allows us to positively impact the communities where we are present. We appreciate the trust of our Associates and all employees who contribute to the growth of the cooperative and make it possible to fulfill our purpose of building a more prosperous society”, adds the president of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, Fabio Peterlini. Point your cell phone and check out the video that shows a summary of the 1st Semester at the Cooperative.24 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Board of Directors Elizandra Martins PortesFábio Peterlini PRESIDENTdriane Thives Araújo de AzevedoOlacir Borgert VICE-PRESIDENTGovernance The Board of Directors are elected at the Ordinary General Assembly, by the Core Coordinators who represent all members of the Cooperative. The body is responsible for establishing the general and strategic orientation and objectives of the Cooperative, in addition to supervising its management, so that its actions meet the interests of its Members. Lucas Simon Adauto Brandelero Manfred BeckerAnnual Report 2021 25 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Executive Board Fiscal Council DEPUTY PERSONNEL Eric Ranullfo Martins Business DirectorValmir Dzivielevski Executive Director Marcos Storti Marcelo Krachinski Galvão Ari Schwans Max Ronaldo ScheiferFiscal Council monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration.The Board of Directors of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the executive management of the business. Paulo Diego Breancini Director of Operations Ademir Pires Barandrecht Ricardo Berté26 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP WITH THEO YOU CAN: - Consult card blocking; - Check the card limit; - Block the card due to loss or theft; - Check the card's expiration date; - Check the card tracking; Theo is ready to help you! Theo is our virtual assistant, his name is a tribute to Father Theodor Amstad, founder of Sicredi and precursor of cooperativism in Brazil. A The tool was created with the aim of optimizing customer service, as it can resolve doubts and provide services through the use of artificial intelligence. THEO IS ON WHATSAPP 24 HOURS A DAY TO ASSIST YOU. JUST FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS AND TYPE THE NUMBER ACCORDING TO YOUR NEEDS. - Consult the card cut-off date; - Consult the automatic debit of cards; - Issue the credit card invoice; - Consult annual fees; - Consult daily purchase limit; - Inhibit physical invoice; - Carry out provisional and definitive suspension of checks; - Request credit extension; - Discover the location of your branch. All this in a simple and uncomplicated way.Annual Report 2021 27 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Count on our new service channel: WhatsApp. To start using it, it's very simple: Send a message to WhatsApp Now you have even more practicality in your service. or use the QR code to add this contato.(51)3358.4770 zs_0069_20_display_mesa_14x24.pdf 1 29/05/2020 12:26 Count on our new service channel: WhatsApp. To start using it, it's very simple: Send a message to WhatsApp Now you have even more practicality in your service. or use the QR code to add this contact.(51)3358.4770 zs_0069_20_display_mesa_14x24.pdf 1 29/05/2020 12:2628 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP open finance this subject yields This subject is yielding interest and curiosity, but it will still yield many opportunities for you. With Open Finance, by sharing your data with us, we can better understand your profile and provide offers and services that meet your needs. • You decide what data you want to share; • Everything securely through our app. Find out everything at sicredi.com.br/openfinance SAC - 0800 724 7220 / Hearing or speech impaired - 0800 724 0525. Ombudsman - 0800 646 2519. Access the QR Code and check out more Annual Report 2021 29 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Open Finance is the open financial system that brings more transparency and autonomy to your financial life. It is the evolution of Open Banking. You can now share your data through the digital channels of financial institutions to receive offers for products and services such as credit cards, loans and investments. It is you who decides: what will be the data, the objective, the institutions and period. All this in a practical and safe way. The entire process is regulated by the Central Bank and you will be protected by the General Personal Data Protection Law (LGPD). Advantages in practice Did you know that Open Banking Brasil is already the largest in the world? Discover how with Open Finance you can improve your financial life at Sicredi: Autonomy and experience Imagine that you are a bank customer and decide to change to a financial institution or hire a service, such as a credit. By sharing your data in this process, you enable the institution to better understand your needs and make personalized offers with more efficient service. Innovation in the segment Open Finance allows institutions to evolve with the solutions they already work with and facilitates the creation of even better services. Furthermore, it increases the chances of the financial market innovating in its operations and functioning. Data sharing Knows when you get it the results of a health examination and decide which doctors you will share the information with for analysis and diagnosis? With Open Finance, the process is very similar. You are the one who chooses what data and who you share it with. Open Finance: what is it?30 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Aug/2021 - Aug/2022Time to celebrate: We are made of people for people. The pride in doing things together is our difference. We are GPTW In August 2021, Sicredi It became a company certified by GPTW, being supported to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking, which lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. With an approval rate of 88%, being certified is already an important achievement for a company of Sicredi's size and scope. In 2021, 42 new Employees joined the Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP team. On 12/31/21 we had 238 Employees. Annual Report 2021 31 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP According to the Strategic Planning 2022 – 2023, we have the opportunity to double the volume of resources managed by the cooperative by the end of this period. To support the agencies, an organizational review was carried out, with support from Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ. The methodology analyzed the activities carried out by professionals and suggested a series of advances, including an increase in the number of employees. With the expansion physical and hiring for the structuring of various areas, the Administrative Headquarters support team now has 20 more contracts distributed across 15 new positions. Today there are 72 employees, 8 of whom work in the northwest region of São Paulo and the rest in the Paraná region. Employees at the Administrative Headquarters Employees from the northwest region of São Paulo, linked to the Administrative Headquarters Team of Employees at the Administrative Headquarters, in Guarapuava PR.32 Report Annual 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP with an increase of 104% compared to the same month last year. Of the balance reached, R$1.6 billion was allocated to Legal Entity (PJ) members, R$621 million to Individuals (PF) and R$571 million to rural members (family farming, medium and large producers). In the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, the growth in operations was also significant, going from just over 1,100 hires in the first quarter of 2020 to 2,300 operations in the same period of 2021, a growth of 108%. In volume, resources financed for the purchase of equipment aimed at generating solar energy went from R$59.3 million, in the first quarter of 2020, to R$97.2 million in the same period of 2021, an increase of 64% in the total amount released . Among the alternatives created by Sicredi to serve its members, in addition to credit for solar energy, is the Sustainable Consórcio, which works as a savings account programmed, allowing the acquisition of eco-efficient equipment With the aim of providing information about the ease of purchasing and installing photovoltaic energy systems (solar energy), Sicredi Planalto das Águas held Environment Week from May 31st to June 4th. The action, in addition to honoring World Environment Day (05/06), shows the concern with facilitating access to renewable alternatives which, in addition to being a great option for reducing electricity bills, make it possible to reduce environmental impacts. “The search for eco-efficient initiatives, such as the use of renewable energy, is aligned with a global movement seeking to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to which we are engaged at Sicredi. We always look for alternatives so that our members have access to credit quickly and safely to support their sustainable projects and, at the same time, we are creating solutions to make our operations even more efficient. sustainable”, explains the Business Director of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, Eric Ranullfo Martins. Growth of more than 100% in the credit portfolio Sicredi's credit portfolio for financing projects for the use of solar energy in Brazil totaled R$2.8 billion in February this year, Environment WeekAnnual Report 2021 33 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP between 2015 and 2019 for the operation of the headquarters of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, located in Curitiba (PR), and the 732 branches of the cooperative financial institution installed in Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Neutralization was carried out through different actions, such as the conservation of native Atlantic Forest forest in an area of ​​85.5 hectares, which offset 7,227 tons of CO2 emitted between 2015 and 2018. At the national level, greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted in 2019 operations by all Sicredi agencies in the country were neutralized through support for the Project REDD+ Jari Pará - initiative that generates carbon credits for forest conservation in the Amazon and has the support of Biofílica. The action neutralized 35,793 tons of greenhouse gases emitted throughout the country. Connection with the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals A member of the Global Compact proposed by the United Nations World Organization (UN), Sicredi is committed to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the operation with IFC objectives 7, 9, 13 and 17 are being met, which deal, respectively, with affordable and clean energy; Industry, innovation and infrastructure; Action against global climate change; and Partnerships and means of implementation Find out more about Sicredi's actions and strategies in relation to sustainable development at the link: www.sicredi.com.br/site/about-nos/sustainability/.from contemplation by draw or fixed bids and free. Currently, the Consortium has plans for 60 to 120 months for the purchase of solar or wind energy generators, water and sewage treatment equipment and LED lighting and solar water heaters, among others. The product's current portfolio is made up of R$1.1 billion in credits and 21 thousand shares. In relation to the same previous period in 2020, the product grew 37.8% in credits and 21.6% in quotas. Internally, Sicredi follows a Sustainability and Socio-Environmental Responsibility Policy that has among its pillars the dissemination of sustainability, management of socio-environmental risks and efficient operation. States of São Paulo and Paraná emerge in sustainable agencies Today there are more than 35 member service points in the states of Paraná and São Paulo that operate with photovoltaic systems. In addition to the agencies, the solar energy system operates at the administrative headquarters of several cooperatives linked to Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ. Added to the purpose of sustainability and eco-efficiency, the Sicredi neutralized 27,272 tons of greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted The objective is to provide information on the acquisition of photovoltaic energy capture equipment34 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP come together to promote the Sustainable Development Goals Cooperative financial institution reinforces, together with the Smurfs, ambassadors of the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs, the importance of small actions that can generate great positive impact for a fairer and more prosperous society Little blue creatures who live in mushroom-shaped houses and star in stories that emphasize the importance of collaboration and mutual help. This is the Smurfs, characters created in 1958 by the Belgian cartoonist Peyo, and currently, ambassadors of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), who joined Sicredi, the country's first cooperative financial institution and member of the Global Compact, to further reinforce the Sicredi and Smurfs promotion Access the QR Code and check out the Smurfs videos in partnership with Sicredi Annual Report 2021 35 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP cooperatives, to disseminate and take information about the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda to all corners of the country”, he states. In addition to the Smurfs' messages, the animations also feature images of actions carried out by cooperatives in the communities that are directly linked to the Objectives. “We reinforce that the Sicredi has as its principle the ideals of the founders with solid concepts such as solidarity and collaboration and that these differences are an alternative to the traditional financial system for the member in the same way that they positively impact the communities in which we operate”, explains the president of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, Fabio Peterlini. Smurfs and SDGs Seen by children of various generations, the Smurfs design has become a symbol for the dissemination of SDGs all around the world. The deputy director of UNRIC (United Nations Regional Information Center for Western Europe), Caroline Petit, explains that the Smurfs are active members of the SDG Media Compact, an initiative developed to raise awareness about the Sustainable Development Goals. “They bring awareness about the SDGs to many children and families and, in doing so, help change behaviors. The 17 global goals belong to people and each of us can make a difference. difference for a better society and a more sustainable world”, he states. of the goals proposed by the United Nations (UN) for a better world. Signed with the Belgian company IMPS, holder of the rights to the Smurfs, through the Brazilian agency Vertical Licensing, the project was launched during the Global Goals Week, held between the 17th and 26th of September, to promote reflections, disseminate actions and good practices of Sicredi cooperatives that aim to fulfill the 2030 Agenda. With the partnership, the cooperative financial institution launched the Sicredi and Smurfs website on September 17, developed especially for the project, with content about the SDGs. Videos starring the Smurfs were also released, and with real images of Sicredi initiatives that contribute to the SDGs. The videos are available both on the project's official website and on the social networks of Sicredi's 31 credit cooperatives that operate in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, such as Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP and on the official channels of the Sicredi System. “We are very pleased that an institution like Sicredi is carrying out major initiatives for a better and more sustainable world. Therefore, it is an honor that Sicredi can join us [Smurf family] for sustainable development, one of the Smurfs' fundamental values. They count on you to change the world and every gesture counts”, he comments the head of Marketing at Communications & Family Entertainment, at IMPS, Philippe Glorieux. For the executive director of the Global Compact in Brazil, Carlo Pereira, entities and companies have a fundamental role in mobilizing in favor of environmental, social and governance issues. “Sicredi already has in its DNA these issues and concepts that we work on in the Global Compact. And this partnership is undoubtedly very successful. The Smurfs have been part of our symbolism for a long time and continue to be more present and contemporary than ever. The Smurfs are a society living in harmony with each other and with nature. And Sicredi has this enormous potential, through 36 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP PRINCIPLES OF COOPERATIVISM AUTONOMY AND INDEPENDENCE We are mutual aid organizations, controlled by members and with autonomy. (Bylaws - Chapter I and II) VOLUNTARY AND FREE MEMBERSHIP You cannot force someone to join or remain. (Statute Social - Chapter III) INTERCOOPERATION Cooperatives can be more effective and stronger by working together (Bylaws - Chapter II) EDUCATION, TRAINING AND INFORMATION We promote the training of associates, elected representatives and employees so that business development occurs in a manner sustainable. (Bylaws - Chapter II and IX) ECONOMIC PARTICIPATION In addition to contributing to the formation of capital, members have the duty to operate with their cooperative. (Statute Social - Chapter IV)DEMOCRATIC MANAGEMENT Associates participate in the construction of policies and decision-making. (Bylaws - Chapter V) INTEREST IN THE COMMUNITY This principle can be seen in social initiatives, but also in solutions that seek to develop the business and lives of members. (Bylaws - Chapter IV) Annual Report 2021 37 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP The Crescer Program presents a proposal for cooperative education, with the aim of disseminating knowledge about cooperative societies. This year we held events with members of the agencies in Jales, Santa Fé do Sul, Bonsucesso and Pinhão, respecting all security measures. We seek to provide a different moment of interaction and socialization, showing members the differences of participating in a Cooperative Financial institution. Associates of the Bonsucesso Agency – Guarapuava/PR Associates of the Pinhão Agency/PRAssociates of the Santa Fé do Agency South/SP Associates of the Jales Agency/SP38 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP With financial education as one of the bases for generating a positive impact on society, Sicredi was present at the 8th edition of the National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week ), an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF), held between the 8th and 14th of November. During this period, the Cooperative intensified actions aimed at this topic. During ENEF Week, the Sicredi promoted the live “Sustainable Financial Life”. Presented by journalist Paula Valdez, with the participation of guests Vera Rita de Mello Ferreira, technical advisor of the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis, and Eduardo Amuri, author of the books “Dinheiro sem Medo” and “Finanças para Autônomos”. The live broadcast addressed the relationship with money, and brought practical tips to develop behaviors that help achieve a sustainable financial life. With the aim of raising awareness of the public Financial Education:  Sicredi participates in the 8th edition of the ENEF   Children's Week together with Mauricio de Sousa Produções, the week ended with the live Turma da Mônica and Financial Education. “We understand financial education as a fundamental element for having a sustainable financial life, as the conscious use of money is essential for achieving personal and professional goals. The Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis materializes our objective of supporting the construction of a more financially and socially prosperous society, states João Tavares, executive president of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and CEO of Fundação Sicredi. During ENEF 2020 Week, Sicredi was responsible for 43% of the total actions carried out in Brazil, impacting more than 4.3 million people across the country. There were around 1,400 initiatives in more than 370 municipalities in all regions of the country. The program “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis”, brings financial education to audiences of all ages.Annual Report 2021 39 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP ZENILCE SCOROPAD DE COL Candói DAIARA GABRIELA AMARAL DE SIQUEIRA Pinhão GUILHERME DO NASCIMENTO MACHADO Guarapuava LUCAS BINDE Santa Maria do West ANDREZA LUIZA MARTINS PEREIRA Pitanga ANA PAULA SGARBOSA CORRÊA Manoel Ribas NAIARA DE FREITAS MOURA Lake Portal RAFAEL ARAUJO Lake Portal ROSANA AURELIO Palmital ADEMILSON PARTEKA Turvo LEONARDO MOREIRA HECKLER Entre RiosThe Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis has the support of volunteers, who develop Financial Education workshops in the communities. We held a moment of alignment with employees who volunteered to develop the work with the workshops, facilitating this process. GABRIEL CEZAR DE ARAUJO DE SOUZA Bonsucesso JULIANA SOSTER Administrative Headquarters ROBISON ZAMBONIN Administrative Headquarters JOÃO LUCAS FREITAS DO NASCIMENTO Administrative Headquarters MICHAEL BUENO Administrative Headquarters AUGUSTO CEZAR MARIANO LUCHESI Mira Estrela FÁBIO JUNIO SOARES Jales THAYNA EVELLY OLIVEIRA CUINETE Jales HILLEN CRISTINY PRETI DE FREITAS Santa Fé do Sul ANDRESSA CAROLINE ESTEVES PEREIRA Votuporanga HENRIQUE RAFAEL ARAUJO RODRIGUES FernandópolisD we stake our facilitators:Training of facilitators 40 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Headquarters Representatives Administrative with Comics from Turma da MônicaAgência Portal do Lago – Guarapuava PR Entre RIos Agency - Guarapuva/PR Administrative Headquarters Palmital Agency/PRA Cooperativa Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP carried out 40 initiatives including financial education workshops and delivery of comics to schools .Annual Report 2021 41 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Santa Fé do Sul Agency SP Votuporanga Agency/SP Votuporanga Agency/SPWe distributed 20 thousand copies of Turma da Mônica Jovem for high schools. And 15 thousand copies of Turma da Mônica comic books for children for municipal schools. Pinhão Agency/PRAgência de Fernandópolis/SP42 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP During ENEF Week, from November 8th to 14th, we promoted the Conversa Franca Program - Changing habits for a more prosperous life. Several experts brought important knowledge and reflections. THE MONK SATYANATHA , who at the age of 24 entered the monastery, graduated in Comparative Theology, spoke about SELF-DISCIPLINE. GUSTAVO ARNS, Creator of the Happiness Congress, postgraduate in Neuroscience, Positive Psychology and Mindfulness, addressed the topic of RELATIONSHIPS. ERASMO VIEIRA, writer and master in Administration and Financial Intelligence, specialist in Finance, dealt with the topic of ORGANIZATION. EMILIO CASTRO PAIVA, specialist in Time Management and postgraduate professor. And Joseph Pio Martins, economist and author of Financial Education books, brought content about PRODUCTIVITY. JOSÉ NASCIMENTO, communications and marketing executive, teacher, mentor, consultant, reported on his experience and how to put all the learnings into ACTION. MARI FERREIRA, graduated in Audiovisual Production, Financial Planning and Economic Behavior, told her life story and spoke about ECONOMY. Annual Report 2021 43 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Agência Entre RiosVotuporanga Agency Bonsucesso Agency Pinhão Agency Guarapuava Agency Jales Administrative Headquarters Portal do Lago Agency Manoel Ribas Agency TurvoMulherMulher AgencyDignity of the Women's Dignity Campaign collected many intimate and personal feminine hygiene products, contributing to several charitable entities that serve women and girls with difficulty accessing these products. This campaign was created by the Women's Committee and supported by our agency teams. The initiative encouraged and inspired municipalities to approve laws that meet this need.44 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP The Sicredi Foundation, the social and cultural arm of the cooperative financial institution with more than 5 million members and presence in 25 states and in the Federal District, it has just released a study on the social impact of the “A União Faz a Vida” program. The work sought, through methodology scientific, identify the Social Return on Investment (SROI) of the initiative carried out for more than 25 years with children and adolescents from public and private schools in different regions of Brazil. As main results, the study revealed that the impacts of the Program remain at the same intensity in the lives of participants for a period of five to seven years, and that they correspond to four times the investment made. In other words, for every R$1.00 invested, R$4.07 of social impacts.The SROI methodology, applied in the development of the study, allows social impacts to be monetized, that is, values ​​in reais (R$) are attributed to the impacts measured in the research. Therefore, based on the year 2019, the study estimates that the social value generated by the Program is around R$465 million, with 88.5% of this value corresponding to the transformations perceived in the participating students, and 11.5% of the value composed of the changes perceived in the teachers. Another important conclusion was that six out of ten students increased their interest in school and its activities. The initiative aims to promote principles of cooperation 'A União Faz a Vida': Sicredi program generates social impact four times greater than the amount invested Impact of the initiative remains at the same intensity for up to seven years in the lives of participants and increases school attendanceReport Annual 2021 45 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP and citizenship among children and adolescents from Early Childhood, Elementary and High School schools in the communities where the cooperative financial institution operates, encouraging them to be protagonists who make collective decisions and build cooperative projects. For more than 25 years, the Program has been developed in schools in the South, Southeast, Central-West and North regions of the country and has already reached the mark of more than 3 million children and adolescents impacted, in addition of more than 150 thousand educators, responsible for implementing the principles and methodology. “It is rewarding to transform the lives of children and adolescents with education. The Program increases the interest and involvement of participants in the learning process, being able to promote a greater sense of citizenship and collectivity and socio-emotional skills. We develop these young people so that they can promote positive impacts in their communities”, explains Romeo Balzan, superintendent from the Sicredi Foundation. More information about the Social Return on Investment – ​​SROI report is available at: https://auniaofazavida.com.br/impacto/estudo/46 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Project: Use of Pesticides and Agricultural Technologies TURMA : 1st GRADE A AND 1ST GRADE B The students researched land use, visited the Agrária experimental field, and many questions guided the project. The topic was worked on by two groups, who brought different views on the same subject, the 1st Series A class discussed the use of pesticides and the 1st Series B class researched new agricultural technologies. Projects Colégio Imperatriz Dona Leopoldina Project: Indigenous art CLASS: 2nd GRADE 2nd Grade Students developed the project based on a documentary about indigenous art, which sparked an interest in learning more about the current and ancient lives of indigenous peoples. Bringing various lessons learned to students who sought to understand and learn better about the fermentation of beverages, which led them to understand the natural beer fermentation process. In 2021, high school students and teachers at Colégio Imperatriz developed projects based on the methodology of the A União Program Make Life. Annual Report 2021 47 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Socio-environmental Impacts Project CLASS: 3rd GRADE The 3rd Series students carried out the investigative expedition at the shelter of animals from Entre Rios – Guarapuava/PR. They discussed the problems caused by the abandonment of animals, impacts that affect society and the environment. Students, aware of the cause, promoted awareness actions and a campaign to raise funds, which were used for castration, acquisition of food and supplies for the animals. 48 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP EXPANSION OF THE PROGRAM THE UNIÃO MAKES LIFE Manoel Ribas PARTNERSHIP CELEBRATED ON SEPTEMBER 14 WITH THE SIGNING OF THE COOPERATION AGREEMENT. In 2021, our main goal for the A União Faz a Vida Program was the expansion to new municipalities in Paraná. We coordinated with all city halls in our area of ​​action (with an agency), and with this we went from 2 to 9 municipalities, that is, 7 new municipalities where we will work with the Program in 2022 together with the Municipal Education Departments. Partnership agreement between the Cooperative and the City Hall Municipal by Manoel Ribas, signed on September 14 Delivery of the program's mascot to the Secretary of Education Carla Albuquerque Araújo FreibergerLocal Coordinator Leila de Fátima Martins Roecker receives the program's mascotPresident Fabio Peterlini Annual Report 2021 49 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Campina do Simão Palmital PRESENTATION MEETING HELD ON 09/21/2021. With the presence of the Municipal Mayor Mr. André Junior de Paula, the Secretary of Education Mrs. Eliane Zolet Lazzaretti and the pedagogical team, Ms. Silmara Brandalise Hardt, Ms. Rosane Nezi Teodoro and Ms. Lourdes Buchardt. PRESENTATION MEETING HELD ON 20/10/21. With the presence of leaders from the municipality, the Vice Mayor Mr. Roberto Carlos Rossi, the First Lady Mrs. Silvania Schmitz de Souza, the Secretary of Education Mrs. Eva de Souza and Mr. Zacaria de Melo. Mayara Meira da Silva ( First Lady and Secretary of Social Assistance of Manoel Ribas) receives the program's mascot. Executive Director Valmir DizivielevskiDelivery of the program's mascot to the Manoel Ribas agency Leadership of the Cooperative and the municipality of Manoel Ribas50 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Turvo PARTNERSHIP CELEBRATED ON OCTOBER 28 BETWEEN THE COOPERATIVA AND THE MUNICIPAL CITY OF TURVO. Secretary of Education Silvane Rickli Horst Schneider Executive Director Valmir Dizivielevski Mayor Jeronimo Gadens do RosarioLeaderships of the Cooperative and the municipality of Turvo Team of employees from the Turvo agency receive the mascot of the Presidente Fabio Peterlini Program Annual Report 2021 51 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Santa Maria do Oeste Delivery of the mascot to the team of employees at the agency. President Fabio Peterlini Mayor and First Lady receive the Program's mascot. Mayor Oscar Delgado Leadership of the Cooperative and the municipality of Santa Maria do Oeste Delivery of the Program's mascot to the Secretary of Education Nilceia Aparecida Vieira Fernandes. PARTNERSHIP CELEBRATED ON DECEMBER 9 WITH THE MUNICIPAL CITY OF SANTA MARIA DO OESTE.52 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Pitanga ON DECEMBER 10, THE COOPERATION AGREEMENT WAS SIGNED WITH THE MUNICIPAL CITY OF PITANGA. Executive Director Valmir DizivielevskiSecretary of Education Alfredo Luiz Schavaren Pedagogical Coordinator, Ana Roque Tizot, receives the Program's mascot. Team of employees at the Pitanga AgencyPresidente Fabio Peterlini Manager of the Pitanga Agency Eduardo Carlos Bordin receives the Program's mascot. Delivery of the mascot to the Secretary of Education Alfredo Luiz Schavaren. Cooperative leaders and the municipality of PitangaAnnual Report 2021 53 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP CandóiCOOPERATION AGREEMENT SIGNED ON DECEMBER 16 WITH THE MUNICIPAL CITY OF CANDÓI. Executive Director Valmir DizivielevskiSr. Gilvan Czarnieski, representative of Mayor Goldoni Filho and Secretary of Education Jaqueline Pinheiro Zarpelon. Delivery of the mascot to Mr. Gilvan Czarnieski Delivery of the mascot to the team of the municipality's Secretary of Education. President Fabio Peterlini Leadership of the Cooperative and the municipality of Candói Delivery of the mascot to the agency's team of employees.54 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Connected to the principles of cooperativism as an agent for transforming society, Sicredi, a cooperative financial institution with more than five million members participated in another edition of Cooperation Day, Day C. In total, more than 960 actions were carried out in around 640 Brazilian municipalities, benefiting more than 165 thousand people. Only the affiliated cooperatives operating in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro engaged around 3,600 volunteers to carry out 511 actions that positively impacted more than 90,000 people in 312 municipalities in the three states. For the president of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, Manfred Dasenbrock, the positive results reflect the differentials of cooperativism that operates through collaboration. “Mutual aid and solidarity for the common good and development of communities have always been the main motivations of our founders, and continue to inspire employees at our Administrative Headquarters Pitanga Sicredi’s actions on Cooperation Day benefit more than 165 thousand people Annual Report 2021 55 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP cooperatives for actions as important as those carried out in celebration of C Day”, he analyzes. The mobilization initiative is directly linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), established by the United Nations (UN) for a better world. Due to the continuity of the covid-19 pandemic, the initiatives developed by the affiliated cooperatives benefited families in vulnerable situations with food collections, hygiene and cleaning products, as well as donations to health institutions. “Sicredi has been part of the Global Compact since February 2020 and, throughout its history, has always acted attentive to the demands of its members and the regions where it is present. This proximity to communities has generated social responsibility actions with a great positive impact, promoting the virtuous cycle of cooperativism for a more prosperous society”, concludes Dasenbrock.Entre Rios Pinhão Manoel RibasGuarapuava Santa Fé do SulPalmital Votuporanga Manoel Ribas56 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Candói Entre Rios Portal do Lago Mira Estrela Manoel Ribas JalesAnnual Report 2021 57 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP + 5 thousand kg of food 154 blankets 215 liters of milk 167 pairs of shoes 40 blankets R$6,770 donated Materials donated to hospitals 18 actions400 volunteers+3000 beneficiaries Results achieved in the actions of Cooperativa Sicredi Planalto das Àguas PR/SPPersonal protection products against COVID (masks, caps, gloves and alcohol) 900 gloves 1000 masks 1000 caps Alcohol Hygiene products Hospital Fabric and Clothing58 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP sicredi.com.br Point the camera from your cell phone and find out more. al ter nati vaWhat if what's best for your company is also best for everyone? There is an alternative. We are a cooperative financial institution that grows together with you, your company and the society. Therefore, we offer ideal solutions for your business to prosper, fair rates and close, human and digital service, throughout Brazil and in the palm of your hand. Open your account with us. Investments and more Planalto das Águas PR|SP sicredi.com.br Point your cell phone camera and find out more. al ter nati vaWhat if what's best for your company is also best for everyone? There is an alternative. We are a cooperative financial institution that grows together with you, your company and society. Therefore, we offer ideal solutions for your business to prosper, fair rates and close, human and digital service, throughout Brazil and in the palm of your hand. Open your account with us. Investments and more PR|SP Sicredi Claims Center 0800-742-1010 24-hour service, every day, including holidays. Contact the insured person requesting service via the Sicredi App or 051 3358-4770 Supplier will make contact after accessing the link: https://whatsapp.sicredi.iode Automobile REACTIVE: ACTIVEAnnual Report 2021 61 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP INSURANCE BRANCH Agricultural Automobile Property (business + residential + rural) Life Total compensation 78 127 86 213 504R$ 608,507.54 R$ 822,177.98 R$ 533,714.91 R$ 4,270,060.28 R$ 6,234,460.71NUMBER OF COMPENSATIONSVALUES INDEMNIFIED everythingThe people who are important to you.protect We believe that through compensation to As associates, we minimize the negative impacts caused. The different types of insurance allow added income to Associates. Check the amount of compensation and the amounts compensated for 2021.62 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Action to encourage increased financial reserves carried out in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro distributed more than R$2.5 million in awards throughout the year A company based in Santa Tereza d'Oeste (PR) was the winner of the special draw with a prize of R$1 million. The member of the cooperative Sicredi Vanguarda PR/SP/RJ was the big winner of the “Poupança Premiada Sicredi” campaign, promoted by the cooperative financial institution in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. In total, the promotion, whose campaign stars were the duo Cesar Menotti & Fabiano (who are also members of Sicredi), distributed more than R$2.5 million in prizes in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio of January. The action contributed to the opening of 111.3 thousand new savings accounts at the cooperative financial institution, resulting in an increase of more than R$1.28 billion in the modality in the three states, with a total of R$8.59 billion in consolidated portfolio. CHECK OUT THE DRAWERS AT WWW.SICREDI.COM. BR/PROMOCAO/ POUPANCAPREMIADA/5 DRAWINGS EVERY WEEK AR$ THOUSAND 5 IN OCTOBER$ THOUSAND 500 L IN THE FINAMILHÃO DRAW R$1 Annual Report 2021 63 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP R$ 1 million Winner of prize of R$500 thousand reais. Maristela R. de Melo Stock, from Entre Rios, won R$5,000 in the 30th weekly draw Maria Tereza dos Santos Oliveira, associate from Palmital/PR, won R$5,000 in the 4th weekly drawDionisio Zaionz, associate from Guarapuava, won R$ 5 thousand in the 22nd weekly draw Eduardo Pletz, from Entre Rios/PR, won R$5 thousand in the 13th weekly drawRosalina Stasiak Saldanha, associate from Santa Maria do Oeste, won R$5 thousand in the 30th weekly draw This increase in fundraising provides new business opportunities, as it offers more credit and resources to the market, especially to key sectors of the economy, such as commerce and agribusiness - promoting regional development. “By entrusting their savings to a cooperative financial institution, such as Sicredi, the member helps to promote what we call a virtuous circle. This is because the resources invested in credit cooperatives increase the ability to increase rural and commercial credit available in the region of each institution and which play a fundamental role in the development of the local economy. We know that, the more credit offered, we increase the capacity of the productive sector, which can expand business, hire more employees and develop. For this reason, we celebrate the increase in funding, as we know that, in practice, we return more resources to society, making dreams and projects viable, moving the entire economy”, highlights the Business Development Manager at Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, Adriana Zandoná França. At Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, we had 5 Associates drawn for weekly prizes of R$5,000.00. There were 202 winners foreseen in the regulations and totaling more than R$2.5 million in prizes throughout the year. The complete list of winners of the “Poupança Premiada Sicredi” is on the website www.sicredi.com.br/promocao/economacapremiada/ Winner of the prize of R$ 1 million reais.Company Paraná receives R$ 1 million in the Poupança Premiada Sicredi campaign 64 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Solar EnergySustainable alternative has helped to overcome successive increases in energy bills, both in the countryside and in the city Owner of two poultry farms in Guairaça, In the Northwest of Paraná, Hercules Edemir Cestaro installed panels for the production of solar energy in his rural area in the first half of 2021. The main motivation for change it was the economy. “Normally, there would be an [energy] bill of around R$7,000. Now it doesn’t reach R$500”, says Cestaro, who still observes a strong tendency for change. “Here in the region, people are doing it. In the sheds there is a lot of energy consumption.” The increase in demand for financing for the acquisition of solar energy equipment has been registered by Sicredi. The credit portfolio of the cooperative financial institution for this modality already exceeds R$ 3.5 billion, growth of over 110% in one year. In 12 months, the cooperative financial institution registered an increase of 143% in Sicredi records growth of more than 110% in financing for the installation of solar energy panelsAnnual Report 2021 65 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP of photovoltaic energy distributed in the country should grow from 4.4 to 8.3 gigawatts in 2021. Sicredi member Luiz Jabur did the math and verified that it was worth investing in financing for the purchase of equipment with the aim of lowering the cost of energy in your home in Paraná. “As I financed part of the capital, basically what I pay today, between energy and financing, is what I would pay for energy. It is worth it. So much so that I want to put it into my company now and, certainly, we will reinforce the partnership with Sicredi for financing”, he says. Historical funding In 2021, aiming to meet the growing demand for credit for the installation of photovoltaic energy systems, Sicredi signed a partnership agreement to raise funds with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank group, and stimulate solar energy projects. The international credit line is US$120 million (around R$600 million) and focuses on financing solar energy projects for the institution's members throughout Brazil. The operation was the first carried out by a Brazilian cooperative financial institution and which received certification issued by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI). number of members served with solar energy products. For Individual Agro members, the number of operations grew 165% in August 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. In the state of Paraná alone, Sicredi recorded, until August 2021, the release of more than R$256 million for solar energy, in more than 5.3 thousand operations, with an average ticket of R$48 thousand. “Sicredi has as one of its differences the close relationship with the associate and consultative service to offer solutions suited to each need. Solar energy has proven to be a viable alternative for many people, both due to its sustainability and the savings generated”, comments the Business Development Manager at Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, Gilson Nogueira Farias. Alternatives that fit the budget According to the Brazilian Photovoltaic Solar Energy Association (Absolar), generation 66 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP The start of work on the new agency in Entre Rios, District of Guarapuava, took place on October 18, 2021. On 01/07/22, during the festivities program due to the 70th anniversary of the Entre Rios District, a formal inauguration ceremony was held, which was attended by leaders. The work was designed with a modern design, which seeks to differentiate itself from a traditional banking institution, and which offers members a more private and personalized service, providing a closer relationship and an even more collaborative experience, which is one of the attributes of the Sicredi brand.Sicredi opens new space in Entre RiosStart of activities aims to offer more comfort for Members Located in Alameda Balden Wurtenberg, is right in front of the Administrative Headquarters of Cooperativa Agraria, in Colônia Vitória. “10 years ago we arrived in Entre Rios with our first structure, to meet the needs of the local community. With the delivery of this new agency, in partnership with cooperatives Agraria and CooperAliança, we are happy to be fulfilling our mission of offering financial solutions that add income to members and contribute to development Fabio Peterlini, President of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP Jorge Karl, President of the Agraria Cooperative Norberto Ortigara Secretary of Agriculture of ParanáReport Annual 2021 67 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP of the region. This is allowing the growth of the cooperative, through the trust of the entire community”, comments the president of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, Mr. Fabio Peterlini. The new space has 730 square meters, 06 self-service terminals, associated space or coworking (where members can use the space with a complete infrastructure to work, hold meetings, among other activities), 12 parking spaces parking, 01 space with charger for electric vehicle, spaces for motorbikes and bicycles, external living space, solar energy system and cistern with rainwater collection. “A large, modern and sustainable space available to the Entre Rios community, reinforcing our responsibility with the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals), of which the Sicredi System is part of the Global Compact, carrying out actions that cooperate with the UN 2030 agenda ”, emphasizes the director executive of Cooperativa Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, Valmir Dzivielevski. The Entre Rios District is south of Guarapuava and is one of the largest districts in the country, measuring around 864 km². In 1951, it was colonized by Danube Swabian immigrants, former inhabitants of the banks of the Danube River, after experiencing difficulties resulting from the Second World War. Upon settling in, families of Germanic culture founded the Cooperativa Agraria in the region, which produces soybeans, corn, wheat and barley and gave rise to the Entre Rios District. The District is made up of 5 colonies and is one of the regions with the highest production of winter crops in Brazil, responsible for 25% of all barley production in the country. Point the camera on your cell phone and check out the video of the inauguration ceremony of the Entre Rios Agency, District of Guarapuava:68 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP LGPD is the acronym for Brazil's General Data Protection Law, sanctioned in August 2018, which will come into force in August 2020. The LGPD establishes rules on the collection, storage, processing and sharing of personal data, imposing more protection and penalties for non-compliance. LGPDLGPD Definitions DATA SUBJECT A natural person who can be identified, directly or indirectly, by one or more factors such as name, ID, CPF, location data. Example: collaborators and associates own their data. CONTROLLER Person physical or legal entity, under public or private law, who are responsible for decisions regarding the processing of personal data. Example: Sicredi controls the data of a new member when opening an account. OPERATOR Natural or legal person, governed by public or private law, who processes personal data on behalf of the controller. Example: Unimed, as a partner company of Sicredi, is the data operator, as it processes data collected by the controller (Sicredi) for its employees. DATA PROTECTION OFFICER (DPO) Person appointed by the controller and operator to act as a communication channel between the controller, data subjects and the National Data Protection Authority (ANPD). NATIONAL DATA PROTECTION AGENCY (ANPD) Federal direct public administration body that has responsibilities related to the protection and privacy of personal data and, above all, must monitor compliance with the Law No. 13,709/2018. PERSONAL DATA Any and all information related to an identified or identifiable natural person. Examples of personal data include name, ID, CPF, email, landline and cell phone, home address, etc. Those relating to a legal entity, such as CNPJ, company name, business address, among others, are not considered personal data. Protecting data is the responsibility of all of us. Annual Report 2021 69 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Sicredi Planalto das Águas celebrated the certification obtained by its Internal Controls Manager, Luciana Pelizari. This is CICS - Certified Internal Control Specialist, which consists of a program developed by ICI - Internal Control Institute to recognize those people who demonstrate a predefined level of knowledge and competence in internal controls and risk management. Although the process and exam take place in Brazil, certification is managed and controlled by ICI USA. "We are always looking for excellence in our processes. Nowadays there is no room for failures in processes and internal controls. To strengthen governance, the institution needs to have qualified professionals to model, implement, monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the system of the Institution's internal controls", comments Luciana Pelizari. SENSITIVE DATA All personal data that can generate any type of discrimination, such as data on racial or ethnic origin, religious conviction, political opinion, membership of a trade union or organization of a religious, philosophical or political nature, data relating to health or sexual life, genetic or biometric data. DATA PROCESSING Any operation carried out with personal data, such as those relating to collection, production, reception, classification, use, access, reproduction, transmission, distribution, processing, archiving, storage and elimination. International Certification 70 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Sicredi offers options for rural producers to invest the results of agricultural productionCooperative financial institution has a broad portfolio of investments aimed at rural producers who intend to profit even more from the harvest and experience the differences in credit cooperatives Throughout Brazil, the Gross Value of Agricultural Production (VBP) reached R$1.129 trillion in 2021, according to survey by the Mapa Agricultural Policy Secretariat. The number represents an increase of 10.1% compared to that achieved in 2020 and, according to the secretariat, crops represent 68% of the VBP (R$ 768.4 billion). Behind the positive numbers is the central character of agribusiness: the rural producer who, with farming activity, guarantees regional development, job creation and income. With roots in the countryside, Sicredi has a long partnership with agribusiness. The institution stood out in the ranking of the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban) as the 2nd largest financial institution in granting credit for agribusiness. Furthermore, the proximity to rural producers allows Sicredi to offer the best financial solutions, including investments. “At Sicredi branches, members have options for all investor profiles, from the most conservative, those seeking lower profitability and greater security, to the most daring. One option for rural producers who intend to make even more profitable the results of the harvest they are harvesting”, says Rafael Rossi, Investment Advisor at Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP. In addition to the broad portfolio and the closest and most personalized relationship, Sicredi members have the advantage of investing in a solid cooperative financial institution assessed by the world's main risk rating agencies, with an AA (bra) rating from Fitch and “Strong” rating for your Asset, also granted by the agency. Sicredi is also rated by agencies Moody`s (Aa2) and Standart & Poor`s (AAA). “Those who join and invest in the cooperative financial institution, in addition to receiving income from the amounts invested, are able to have greater profitability because they become part of the cooperative's membership and participate in the results generated at the end of the year. Furthermore, the resources raised by cooperatives are reinvested in the region, promoting a virtuous cycle with income generation, economic development and Annual Report 2021 71 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Access the QR Code below and watch the Stories episodes that connect and understand how the Cooperative supports rural producers: Stories that connectsocial”, explains Eduardo Albuquerque, Investment Advisor at Cooperativa Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP. HIGH SELIC AND NEW RETURN OPTIONS The basic interest rate (Selic) was raised from 9.25% to 10.75% per year, reflecting the consecutive cycle of increases. According to the business director of Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, Eric Ranullfo Martins, the scenario of higher interest rates and a fall in the inflation index improves the profitability of options linked directly to the Selic. It is important that the investor aligns his gain expectations with his profile (bold, moderate or conservative), and with the investment objective. Our managers are specialists and according to your profile and objective, will suggest the best options for your money! We have a complete portfolio (CDB, Funds, Shares, LCA, Savings), to offer rural producers and all associates options according to each need”, concludes Eric.72 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Candói PARANÁ Rua Sebastião Mendes de Araujo, 166 - Centro 42 | 3638 8150Bonsucesso PARANÁ Avenida Manoel Ribas, 3931 - Bonsucesso Guarapuava PR 42 | 3629-7450 Pinhão PARANÁ Rua Sete de Setembro, 206 - Centro. 42 | 3677 1616Entre Rios (Guarapuava) PARANÁ Alameda Balden Wurtenberg, Colônia Vitória, Entre Rios, Guarapuava/PR 42 | 3035 9015Guarapuava PARANÁ Cap. Frederico Virmond, 1350 - Center. 42 | 3035 9004 Manoel Ribas PARANÁ Avenida Brasil, 521 - Centro 43 | 3435 8300Palmital PARANÁ Av Maximiliano Vicentin, 700 - Centro. 43 | 3657 8150Service networkAnnual Report 2021 73 Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR|SP Pitanga PARANÁ Rua XV de Novembro, 128 - Centro. 42 | 3646 5222 Portal do Lago (Guarapuava) PARANÁ Rua Quintino Bocaiúva, corner of Coronel Saldanha - Center. 42 | 3035 9011Santa Maria do Oeste PARANÁ Rua Generoso Karpinski, 1386 - Centro. 42 | 3644 1343 Turvo PARANÁ Rua Elias Rickli, 350 - Centro 42 | 3642 2123 Votuporanga SÃO PAULO Rua São Paulo, 3127 - Room 1 - Patrimônio Novo 17 | 3422 1085Santa Fé do Sul SÃO PAULO Av. Navarro de Andrade, corner of Rua 11 17 | 3641 9090Mira Estrela SÃO PAULO Praça Cândido Brasil Estrela, 583 - Centro. 17 | 3846 1252Fernandópolis SÃO PAULO Av. Expedicionários Brasileiros, 970 - Coester. 17 | 3641 9096 Jales SÃO PAULO Av. João Amadeu, 2774 - Centro. 17 | 3622 0100sicredi.com.br/coop/planalto-das-aguas-pr-sp International Calls (collect) 0513 378 4472SAC (Information, compliments and complaints) 0800 724 7220Service for people with hearing or speech impairments 0800 724 0525Telephone services (Capitals and regions metropolitan areas) 3003 4770 * Cost of a local call Telephone services in other regions 0800 724 4770 Ombudsman and Complaints: 0800 646 2519/sicredioficial /sicredi /sicredi /sicredi_planaltodasaguas /Planalto das Águas PR/SP