1 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal use SOCIAL BYLAWS SOCIAL BYLAWS OF THE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT TERRA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ E NOROE STE PAULISTA – Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Duration Period Art. 1 The Credit Cooperative, Savings and Investment Terra dos Pinheirais do Paraná and Noroeste Paulista – Sicredi Planalto das Águas PR/SP, established at the General Assembly of August 10, 1983, is a financial institution, cooperative, non-profit and responsible society limited, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, having: I – headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in Guarapua va, Rua das Flores, 506, Bairro Conradinho, CEP 85045-300, in this State of Paraná. II – area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, limited to the following municipalities: Boa Ventura de São Roque, Campina do Simão, Candói, Foz do Jordão, Guarapuava, Goioxim, Manoel Ribas, N ova Tebas, Palmital , Pinhão, Pitanga, Iguaçu Reserve, Santa Maria do Oeste and Turvo in the State of Paraná. Álvares Florence, Américo de Campos, Aparecida d'Oeste, Aspásia, Cardoso, Cosmorama, Dirce Reis, Dolcinópolis, Estrela d'Oest e, Fernandópolis, Floreal, Guarani d'Oeste, Indiaporã, Jales, Macaubal, Macedônia, Magda, Marinópolis, Meridiano, Mesópolis, Mira Estrela, Nhandeara, Nova Canaã Paulista, Ouroeste, Palmeira d'Oeste, Paranapuã, Parisi, Pedranópolis, Pontalinda, Pontes Gestal, Populina, Riolandia, Rubinéia, Santa Albertina, San ta Clara do Oeste, Santa Fé do Sul, Santa Rita D'Oeste, Santa Salete, Santana da Ponte Pensa, São Francisco, São João das Duas Pontes, São João de Iracema, Sebastia nópolis do Sul, Três Fronteiras, Turmalina, Urânia, Valentim Gentil , Vit óriaria Brasil and Votuporanga in the state of São Paulo. III - indefinite duration. 2 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROWEST PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE No.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal Use Section II Integration with Sicredi Art. 2 The Society, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the States of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro - Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederation Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Educational and Cultural Development Foundation of the Cooperative Credit System (Foundation Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from the Sicredi Center PR/SP/RJ, on its own initiative or by the Center itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3 The disaffiliation of the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I - the majority of its members, to become independent; II - of the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. § 4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5º The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - of the systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in 3 COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT LAND OF PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/ PR. CEP: 85.045-300 PHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a regime of co-management in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicr edi System, in accordance with the legislation in force and internal regulations. § 8 Membership in the Central automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the members of the Cooperative or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in in relation to the loans mentioned in § 8 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated with other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 10 The liability provided for in the previous paragraph may only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the active Cooper itself, to which the beneficiaries of the resources and of the respective Central are associated. § 11 The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliated company, with a view to complying with current legislation and regulations and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep it at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in § 8 and § 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions allocated to the Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, 4 COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal use, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and legal norms regulatory and complementary. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, which have as their objective the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of services of Centra l and other entities forming part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, in compliance with regulations internal regulations and current legislation. 5 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal use CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I – natural persons, who reside or carry out activities in the area of ​​action, may be members of the Cooperative of the Cooperative; II – legal entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where reside or carry out activity. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited in terms of maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the minimum number of shares provided for in § 2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the active membership of Cooper nor will they be able to participate in it. remain, in addition to the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of § 2 of art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; 6 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROWEST PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 PHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal Use III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or the Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - the one who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, under the terms of current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items IV and V of art t. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II Rights Art. 6th Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, subject to the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when provided by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are set in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to the statutes and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or the 7 COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ E NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Sicredi internal use, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by an associate; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request from 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their rights social, any matters of interest to the Company to be discussed and resolved at a general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information about the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the provisions legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling obligations and other commitments assumed with or through the Cooperative; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, activities that characterize discrimination against any order; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is of common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. 8 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The associates, notwithstanding the provisions of § 2 and § 3 of this article, respond subsidiarily for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations, proportionally to its participation, in accordance with the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing, even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. § 1º A The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required to do so, except in the cases set out in § 2 and § 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of their participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of the member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in their records, due to: I - infringement of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; 9 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal Use II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative within 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any harmful activity to the Cooperative, act with bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative; § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days he or she can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in his/her opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating it from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member with an indication of the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of elimination, subject to art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect on the first general meeting to be held. § 5º When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him, as the case may be. , preventively from his functions, while the investigation continues, making him aware of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days he can present his defense reasons, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing these, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except for the hypothesis of § 6 of this article, it may be delegated to the Executive Board. 10 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs due to: I - Dissolution of the legal entity; II - Death of the individual; III - Loss of unfulfilled civil capacity; IV - Failure to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, § 3rd, of this Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of the article 5th of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and varies according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value R$ 2,500,000.00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into shares- parts worth R$ 1.00 (one real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. § 3 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete the its readmission. § 4th The general assembly, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members are subscribe and pay in new shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. 11 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND COOPERATIVE LAND INVESTMENT IN PINHEIRAS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, subscription and monthly payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit to deposit account. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always serve as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as a guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8 The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10 The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, allowing payment in installments by the Cooperative, to begin within the same period, within up to 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, weighted, to both, the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, from the date of first release until the day they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative , respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the result part of the financial year in which the dismissal occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retire due to disability, you may, exceptionally, submit to the 12 COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ E NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº .: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal use Board of Directors request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining your status as a member, with the minimum of shares established in § 2 of this article, where in cases of value equal to or greater than R$ 30,000.00 (thirty thousand reais), you may have your payment split in up to 3 (three) years, as decided by the Board of Directors. § 14. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their member status, with the minimum of quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 15. The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by members more flexible, including for the purpose of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the member status with a minimum of quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 16. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of your share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative on its behalf, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his/her dismissal from the staff took place. Social. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance arising from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may collect it through the means permitted by the national legal system. § 18. The return referred to in § 13, 14, 15 and 16, if approved by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, will be made at the discretion of this collegiate body, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative. operational, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and the compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative. § 19. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 20. If the member does not promptly comply with the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts due by the former may be compensated, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital shares, maintaining their status as a member with the minimum shares established in § 2nd of this article. 13 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 21. Balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payable not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the fund reserve of the cooperative after 5 (five) years of termination. CHAPTER V GENERAL MEETING: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions of interest to the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or discordant. § 1 Accounts for the end of the financial year, the allocation of results and the election of members of the administrative and supervisory councils, when these are matters on the agenda of the general meeting, they must be previously assessed in nucleus assemblies. § 2 The other matters on the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly in Delegates' Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are only deliberated at an Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform members later. § 4° The coordination of the core assemblies will be the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if they are unable to do so, by whoever he/she indicates. § 5 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the website of the Cooperative or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request not responded to within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their rights social, in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. 14 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); II - the day and time of the assembly, as well as the way in which it will be carried out; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of a remote assembly, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of a remote assembly, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of issuance, for the purpose of installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General Assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, provided that this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies held remotely they must adopt a system and technology for delegate participation. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must comply with the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the remaining delegates. delegates already elected. 15 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If you are elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, you must simultaneously resign from your position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the delegate's vote at general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 1 6, the distribution of delegate vacancies among the nuclei will be carried out based on n its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 50 (fifty) groups, observing its own regulations. II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of delegates will take place in a core assembly, in good time, before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in the regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Administrative Council of the Cooperative will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new meeting will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and alternates – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general assemblies will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. 16 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite an administration advisor to act as secretary the jobs. § 2º When the general assembly has not been convened at least President of the Board of Directors, the work will be chaired and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main interested parties in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his alternate or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations in general assemblies, held in open voting unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except for matters within the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which votes of 2/3 (two thirds) are required. ) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the meeting and the secretary of the work, as well as by a commission of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and however many more wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum , both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the order of the day contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not make it possible to comply with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The Ordinary General Assembly must be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit report, comprising: a) management report; 17 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 PHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Society's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of the components of the administration and fiscal councils; IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are made, the value of the fees, attendance slips and bonuses for Board members; V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, item V, of these Statutes, excluding those with exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow the regulations internal to Sicredi, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, item V, of these Statutes, since mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to decide on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. 18 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE No.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal use CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission constituted specifically for this purpose, for each claim, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same board. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegial deliberation body, composed of individual members, with a minimum of 5 advisors and a maximum to be established in accordance with good governance practices , among them, a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the board of directors, fiscal council or the Executive Board of Cooperative; II - when taking office in the position for which he/she was elected, not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; 19 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal use VI - not applicable have been valid for 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or at another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity , or have a negative record in any bank data s; VIII - not have, through intent or fault, committed any irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX- have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) nucleus assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated, in the immediately previous exercise, or participate, in the courses and other training and refresher events programmed by the System, according to the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of their mandate, up to the deadline of 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for the integral and legal incumbency and legal incumbency, being prohibited the accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires incompatible dedication with responsibility in the Cooperative; XII - be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XIII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XIV - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or using any brands owned by the entities that make up Sicredi; XV - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations; XVI - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which they are a member, the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, have a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, last more than 2 (two) months. 20 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 PHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been appointed or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3º The mandate will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher integer must be considered, being that those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. § 4 Possession of the elected name(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions and temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position. position(s), whether or not the appointed one(s) is confirmed, and the person(s) elected will fulfill the remaining time of the President's term(s) and /or succeeded Vice President(s). Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), with the exception of the President and Vice-President, new components must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive or 4 (four) alternate meetings, during each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the fair ificative; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; 21 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal use IV - sponsorship, as party or attorney-in-fact, legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during its mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; V - the holder becomes ineligible under the regulations in force, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute; VI - licenses, except for health treatment, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and six nte) days. a) When leaving for health treatment, for the President, Vice-President and members of the Executive Board, the continuity of payment of fees is ensured in addition to social security and the maintenance of benefits in force during the period of leave of up to 24 (twenty-four) months, which may be extended at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for political office, party member, must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood as: I - elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President from the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; III - appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, on an ordinary monthly basis, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the call of its President, the majority of the Board itself, or, even, at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, The casting vote is reserved for the President; 22 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1 The convening of meetings of the Board of Directors will preferably be in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No advisor may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of interest. self-interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and these Bylaws, the Board of Directors is responsible for, subject to the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV – appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and competencies and individual remuneration of the Directors, in compliance with the provisions contained in the bylaws; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; 23 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE No.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal use determine the application of applicable penalties; XI- decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital participations in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, to meet complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the Cooperative's membership and community and in compliance with current legislation and deliberations and systemic guidelines in this regard; XIV - authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as to decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change address of other facilities or branches of the Coop erativa, inside or outside the headquarters municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, the legislation and regulations of Sicredi; XVI - express an opinion on the administration report and financial statements for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing capital social by the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing the share capital of the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until after the release of the general assembly, if whatever the case. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - monitoring and supervising the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable regulations is, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; 24 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use II - lead the implementation of membership organization, development and management programs Sicredi, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, observing systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan to the Board of Directors for consideration, as well as budget proposals, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, inside or outside the corporate structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - represent institutionally the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, convening and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate customer service left to the social framework on the Cooperative's premises, aiming to guarantee the satisfaction and quality of services provided to members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council on his leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of companies in which the Cooperative participates. 25 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 PHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal Use Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, one being an Executive Director and one Director of Operations, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Administration Council within 90 (ninety) days after the termination of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and the appointees will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. § 4 The inauguration of the nominee(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and economic societies mixed; II - in the granting of documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of representatives and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and fifth) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 PHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal use I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and XIII to XVI as well as § 1; II - comply with the provisions of § 8 and § 9 of art. 2 7; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the system financial; V - complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations, is responsible for: I - operationally administering the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and the guidelines and Sicredi’s corporate strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective agreements, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Mandate instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a period of time determined, except for those that contemplate the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to completing the action and executing the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, subject to the provisions in this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the alienation or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and development operations and activities in general; 27 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal use VIII - examine work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, informing about the economic and financial status of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical advice of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respecting the legislation and internal normatives of SICREDI; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Administration Council; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities related to the Cooperative's ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi’s cooperative development and sustainability programs in the area of Cooperative performance; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for performance management and monitoring of the Cooperative's results, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, according to the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; 28 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. ZIP CODE: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal use g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals , implementing its execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) respond for management analyzes of the financial statements, for the accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on systemic strategic planning guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) responsible for performance management and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for the execution of plans expansion of the Cooperative in line with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any member of the Executive Board is prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for. in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, however, it may meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of this Bylaws, when the nature 29 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal use of the act to require a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy of the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective replacement, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In case of vacancy of all positions in the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Clearing Service Papers, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause damage to the Company, will be liable directly, with their own assets, for the compensation of the two years. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the paragraph form above, have as a consequence any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised diligently and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 alternate, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing , regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVI, of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires a complete slate(s), independent and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. 30 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as an individual or through through a legal entity of which it is a partner, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, independently frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months. § 3 The term of office will be 3 (three) years. § 4 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets regularly monthly and extraordinarily whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other events Substantial meetings will be recorded in the minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, substitutes will be chosen on that occasion. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be held remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 If there are 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to fill them, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The hypotheses of vacancy provided for in art. 27, § 7, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political-party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed. , under penalty of vacancy of the position. 31 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 41. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over the heritage, the operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the accounts of the Cooperative administration and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of their functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by auditors of the Central and independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative collegiate bodies, formally involved established, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to the group of individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Si credi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, warning about irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, investigating compliance by the Cooperative's management with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the administration bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. 32 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, whose practice arises from its proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the general meeting. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the liability of counselors and directors for the losses caused in accordance with the paragraph above rior. CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 70% (seventy percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended for repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; II – 10% (ten percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families, employees of the Cooperative and the community located in their area of action; III - recomposition of resources from the guarantee funds, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes that deemed appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the equity structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, obeying the apportionment system provided for in this Es tatuto, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares of capital of the associates or destined in addition to the reserve fund itself. 33 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Information classification: Internal use § 2 Donations may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining mandatory destinations without specific destination; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, for through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER are willing to ensure the its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with legal and own regulations. CHAPTER 34 CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE TER RA DOS PINHEIRAIS DO PARANÁ AND NOROESTE PAULISTA - SICREDI PLANALTO DA S ÁGUAS PR/SP CNPJ: 77.984.870/0001-77 NIRE Nº.: 41400000729 ADDRESS: Rua das Flores, 506 – Conradinho - Guarap uava/PR. CEP: 85.045-300 TELEPHONE: (42) 3035-9000 Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including It's the final day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from its shipment. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary legitimacy as an autonomous competitor to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations ration, through authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the legal measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after consultation with the corporate bodies, when necessary. Art. 54. The current members of the Fiscal Council will have their mandates preserved until the Ordinary General Assembly of 2023, applying the provisions changed in this collegiate as of the Ordinary General Assembly that will be held in 2023. Guarapuava/PR, December 28, 2022. Fabio Peterlini Olacir Borgert                        Presidente                                                  Vice Presidente