1 COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT SUL RIOGRANDENSE – SICREDI UNIÃO METROPOLITANA RS CNPJ: 92.796.564/0001 -09 NIRE Nº: 43400001603 ADDRESS: Avenida Alberto Bins, nº 600, 4th floor, Bairro Centro Histórico, Porto Alegre, RS, CEP: 90030 -140 TELEPHONE: (51) 3358 8200 SUMMARY MINUTES OF THE EXTRAORDINARY AND ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY - OF DELEGATES I. DATE, TIME, PLACE: April 28, 2020, at 5pm (seventeen hours), held digitally (virtual), transmitted from the headquarters of the Cooperative located at Av. Alberto Bins, no. 600, 4th floor, Bairro Centro Histórico in the city of Porto Alegre - RS, to delegates via videoconference, using the Microsoft Teams platform, accessed via link sent, with the demonstration and vote of the delegates registered in the digital Assembly, through remote action via audio, video and chat, the full recording of the act is stored at the Cooperative's headquarters. A holding the Assembly in digital (virtual) format took place in light of the recommendation of the Ministry of Health and other competent authorities to avoid crowds, ensuring the safety and health of our associates and collaborators, a modality supported by guidance from BACEN through of Official Letter 5312/20 20-BCB/SECRE/DIORF and by MPV 931/2020, which inserted art. 43-A in Law 5764/71, as well as in DREI Normative Instruction No. 79, of April 14, 2020. II. PRESENCES: It is certified that 75 legacies were present representing their respective centers and a further 100 substitute delegates, digitally connected on the Microsoft Teams platform, as per the electronic recording stored at the Cooperative's headquarters, whose presence was recorded in the List of Presence of the General Assembly, with the Assembly being held on the 3rd call, with the presence of 75 delegates able to vote. TOTAL DELEGATES OF COOPERAT IVA: 75 (seventy-five co). III. CALL: The Assembly was called in accordance with the provisions of articles 38, §§ 1 and 2 of Law no. 5,764/71, and 14, § 2 of the Bylaws. PUBLICATION DATE: April 17, 2020 NEWSPAPER: Jornal do Comércio, page 1, Second Section. IV. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD: President, Mr. Ronaldo Netto Sielichow; Vice-President and Secretary of Works, Mr. Alcides Brugnera. OPENING OF WORKS: 2 The President, Mr. Ronaldo Netto Sielichow, at the opening the work commented on the reasons for holding this digital Assembly, as being a possible and legal measure, based on article 43-A of Law 5,764/71, given the impossibility of gathering people due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I mentioned that the aforementioned legal provision allows members to participate and vote remotely. It also clarified the form of participation and voting by delegates in this Assembly, who will be able to express themselves whenever they want, as well as voting via chat or audio/video using this tool. After clarifications related to the format for holding this Assembly, it began to present the agenda items for discussion and deliberation. V. DELIBERATIONS: UNDER EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY 1. Reform and consolidation of the Cooperative's Social Statute, in its full version. The President, Mr. Ronaldo Nett o Sielich ow, initially, bringing the subject up for discussion, he presented the proposed bylaws in full, contemplating a broad reform to adjust it in accordance with Sicredi's systemic draft standard, already approved by the Central Bank of Brazil. Then, he presented all the articles of the proposed bylaws, clarifying that the majority of the changes consisted only of adjusting the wording in order to facilitate the understanding of the provisions and deleting provisions that did not make more sense. Among the proposed changes, he presented changes to the wording of the corporate purpose: “Art. 3rd The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out credit cooperative operations, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and clubs investment, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and development programs institutional, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. ”. He highlighted other changes such as improvements in the composition and conditions for admitting members, with art. 5th t will be the following interpretation: “Art. 5º Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activity in the area of ​​action of Cooperativa can be members of the Cooperative; II - legal personnel established in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative, including its administrators and partners; III - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, independently the place where they reside or carry out activities; IV - other legal entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; V - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; VI – natural and legal persons residing or established within from the area of ​​operation of Central Sicre di Sul/Sudeste, excluding, for this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to the other Central. § 1º The number of members, unless technical service is impossible, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2 In order to acquire the status of associate, the interested party must, upon admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2 of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º The following will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative and will not be able to remain there, in addition to the hypotheses provided for in the legislation: I - anyone who may compete with the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; II I - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - he who stops ef make payment of obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - the one who provides information inconsistent, or untrue, including through public or private documents, or omitting registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves values ​​arising from activities considered to be regular or illicit, under the terms of current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has registration information will be regular or out of date ized s. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items III and IV of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links.”. Next, he presented changes to the rights and duties of members; changes in the ways in which associates are terminated; improvement of the text relating to the request for reinstatement of an associate who requested dismissal and provision of the possibility of reinstatement of associates and eliminated and excluded; improvement of the wording in the conditions of partial withdrawal of share capital, as well as adjustment to reinforce that, in the event of a member leaving the membership, compensation of any debts with the quotas will be made, leaving a balance debtor, the partner remains responsible for the debt. D also highlighted the inclusion of a provision that the amounts owed by members who did not fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative may also be compensated with surpluses and interest on capital; the change in the general provisions of the General Assembly with the express provision that the assemblies may also be held remotely. Present or change the deliberation system at the General Assembly, with art. 13 will have the following wording: “Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of Active Cooper and, within the limits of the law and this Statute, will take any and all decisions of interest to the Society, with deliberations binding on everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. § 1º The accounting station at the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of components of the administration and fiscal councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general assembly, must be previously appreciated in assemblies of centers, which may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. § 2 Others Matters on the agenda of the general assembly may be resolved directly in Delegate Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3º When the matters are only deliberated in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform the members later. § 4 The coordination of the core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, even if this is impossible. bility of these, by whom that indicates r.”. Clarified regarding the improvement of the wording regarding and the convening of the General Assembly; highlighted the provision that signatures for those present at the General Assembly could be electronically; the inclusion of prediction to allow the election of core coordinators to also occur remotely; He also commented on the exclusion of the obligation to deliberate on the fees of the Executive Board at the General Assembly. Furthermore, he highlighted the simplification of the chapter “Electoral Process”, as the rules are set out in specific regulations. Next, there was a discussion about the adequacy of the wording regarding the composition of the Board of Directors, the requirements for occupying the position and its duties. Among the debates, with emphasis also on the change in the responsibilities of the Executive Board; change of requirements for occupying a position on the Fiscal Council, reported on the change in the frequency of ordinary meetings of the Fiscal Council; highlighted the forecast that meetings of the Boards and the Director could be held in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. He then presented the proposal to create the Social Development Fund, intended to promote social actions not covered by FATES, with a percentage of 3% in accordance with its own regulations. He commented on the prediction that the cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members, whose provision will have the following wording: “Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the market operations of the cooperative, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure.” , and concluded by clarifying that the other changes aim to improve the wording. Once the matter was put to a vote, the draft of the Bylaws presented was approved in full by the unanimous vote of the delegates present, becoming an integral part of these minutes, as an annex. two. Homologation of Sicredi's Internal Regulations, the Electoral Code, the Pertercer Program Regulations and the Social Development Fund Regulations. The President, Mr. Ronaldo Netto Sielichow, presented to the Assembly the new proposal for the Sicredi Internal Regulations – RIS, applicable to individual credit cooperatives that are part of the Sicredi System, which establishes conduct and sanctions applicable to statutory members, with the changes refer to, especially, on the need to adopt the Sicredi brand in accordance with regulations and within the limits of the use license; the review that cooperative 5 may carry out local or interfinancial funding between System cooperatives; the improvement of the text that deals with the systemic deliberations of the College of Executive Directors – CDE; deliberations on systemic matters must comply with the rules established by regulatory bodies; yet, on new infractions of a serious and serious nature, as well as new penalties, among other changes, all consolidated in the regulations. Subsequently, he presented the proposal to amend the Electoral Code, which establishes the systemic rules of the election process for the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council of Sicred i's individual cooperatives. The main changes consist of improving the rules that deal with the Electoral Commission, regarding requirements for its composition; possibility for the Electoral Commission to apply penalties to the Candidate(s) and decide on any challenges to their registration 10 days before the first Core Assembly; You may also, for a single time, determine the replacement of candidate(s) who do not meet the corresponding requirements; new rule regarding the possibility of recomposing the approved plate(s) after the publication of the final nomination. It also establishes tie-breaking criterion in voting for slates for the Administrative and Fiscal Councils. Furthermore, it introduces a rule that allows the Electoral Commission to request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative; as well as, improvements to the rules for registration of plates and the rules that deal with the approval of registrations; prohibited practices and possible sanctions were included in the Code, guaranteeing the ticket's right to defense; Furthermore, the new code establishes that the Commission Electoral Council may provide, in minutes, other prohibited practices and penalties, among other changes, all consolidated in the Electoral Code. He also explained the proposed amendment to the Cooperative's Belonging Regulation, which regulates the procedures that govern Sicredi's Belonging Program, with the aim of decentralizing and expanding debates on the direction of society. Among the changes, the President presented the possibility of holding the Core Assembly to the distance, with a minimum number of 10 votes per nucleus required for the Nucleus Assembly in this format to be considered valid. He clarified that the alternative proposals presented during the holding of an Assembly in a given nucleus will be taken to the next nuclei if the nucleus that proposed is successful; reported that the minimum number of centers in the cooperative was reduced from 20 to 11, observing the fixation of the odd number; exclusion of the requirement of minimum number of cores per service unit; there is no longer a maximum number of groups gathered in the same Assembly; changes to the requirements for applying for the role of Center Coordinator. He also presented the changes in the process for electing Nucleus Coordinators, and from now on there is a need for prior registration up to 2 days before the Assembly of the respective Nucleus; introduction of a rule in which the Cooperative must certify the meeting the requirements for the role and communicating the candidate; prediction of the vacancy of the Coordinator's role if transferred to another center; the possibility of the Coordinator having access to members’ contact information is excluded; It is hereby established that the Coordinator breaks the tie for core votes, and in the absence of the Coordinator and the alternate in the Core Assembly, a new vote will be held. If the tie remains, the matter is considered not approved. It also highlighted the new rule for presenting the nucleus's vote at the Assembly of Delegates when the effective Coordinator and alternate are absent, among other changes consolidated in the instrument. 6 He also presented the proposal for the approval of the Social Development Fund Regulation, with a view to approving the constitution of the Social Development Fund, in art. 44, IV of the bylaws, which provides for the allocation of 3% (three percent) of the surplus calculated at the end of each year to the aforementioned fund. Presented to the Assembly the Regulation that establishes the way in which resources from this fund are made available and managed. He highlighted that the Social Fund aims to promote social actions of collective interest (among those not covered by FATES) contributing to the social development of communities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, such as project s focused on education, health, culture, sports, environment, safety, sustainability, among others. Resources not used in the same year remain available for use in the following year. Subsequently, after providing the necessary clarifications, the aforementioned normative proposals were approved in full, unanimously by the delegates present, applying from now on to associates, administrative and tax advisors, members of the Executive Board and Cooperative employees. The regulations containing the consolidated changes become an integral part of these minutes, as an annex, and are available to members and interested parties at the Cooperative's headquarters. UNDER AN ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2019. The President, Mr. Ronaldo Netto Sielichow, gave a brief report of Sicredi's actions and numbers at national level, highlighting the number of members, service points, credit operations and volume of resources. He also presented the Cooperativ numbers showing the evolution in relation to the previous year, presented the actions developed during the year 2019, highlighting the inauguration of five new Equestrian Service Units, Marecha l Rondon, Carlos Gomes, Morada do Vale and Menino Deus, in addition to the reopening of the Lomba do Pinheiro Service Unit. The implementation of the Field Apprentice Program, as well as such as the implementation of the Escolas Cooperativas Program in the municipalities of Porto Alegre and Gravataí. The President presented the Balance Sheet and the income statement for 2019. Afterwards, Mr. Alcides Brugnera, Vice-President and Secretary of Works, read the opinion of the independent audit issued by ERN ST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S., and the opinion of the Cooperative's Supervisory Board, favorable to the approval of the Balance Sheet patrimonial patrimonial, from the demonstration of Works or Losses, Explanatory Notes and other supporting documents for the semester/financial year ended on 12/31/201 9. After the presentation, and there being no doubts, the assembly, unanimously of the delegates present, decided on the approval of the management report, balance of the two semesters of the corresponding year, statement of works or losses, audit report and opinion of the Supervisory Board. 7 2. Disposal of leftovers . O President, Mr. Ronaldo Netto Sielichow, informed that the Coop erativa recorded a positive result in the amount of R$ 27,075,248.56 (twenty-seven million, seventy-five thousand, two hundred and forty-eight reais and five fifty-six cents), followed by legal allocations, namely: R$2,553,507.80 (two million, five hundred and fifty-three thousand, five hundred and seven reais and eighty cents) for payment of interest on the capital is R$ 2,107,536.31 (two million, one hundred and seven thousand, five hundred and thirty-six reais and thirty-one cents) for the reserve fund relating to loss recovery. He further informed that of the remaining surplus in the amount of R$ 22,414,204.45 (twenty-two million, four hundred and fourteen thousand, two hundred and four reais and forty-five cents), the following allocations will be made statutory, namely: R$ 1,120,710.22 (one million, one hundred and twenty thousand, seven hundred and ten reais and twenty-two cents) for FATES; R$ 14,569,232.90 (fourteen million, five hundred and sixty-nine thousand, two hundred and thirty-two reais and ninety cents) for the reserve fund; and R$ 2,689,704.53 (two million, six hundred and eighty-nine thousand, seven hundred and four reais and fifty-three cents) will be allocated to fulfill charges due to resources received from Sicredi Guarantee Funds – SFG. 2.1 Allocation of leftovers to social projects Mr. Gerson Luis Kunkel, Executive Director of the Cooperative, informed that the Cooperative has a great commitment to communities and to strengthen actions developed by entities in our region, the Cooperative proposes to allocate part of the surplus to social projects in the communities within Cooperativa’s area of ​​activity. Proposals for allocation to social projects supported by the specific regulations approved by the Council of Administration. After the deadline for applying the resources, as provided for in the specific regulations, the amounts not used by approved projects will be allocated for use in the next financial year. PROPOSAL 01: 3% of the remaining surplus, in the amount of R$ 672,426.13 (six hundred and seventy-two thousand, four hundred and twenty-six reais and thirteen cents) PROPOSAL 02: 4% of the remaining surplus , in the amount of R$ 896,568.18 (eight hundred and ninety-six one thousand, five hundred and sixty-eight reais and eighteen cents) PROPOSAL 03: none of the proposals. Put to vote, by majority vote of delegates, with 44 (forty-four) votes in favor of PROPOSAL 01, 31 (thirty-one) votes in favor of PROPOSAL 02, no votes in favor of PROPOSAL 03 and no abstentions, therefore, they approved PROPOSAL 01. 2.2 Criteria for the allocation of leftovers Next, the criteria for the allocation of leftovers were presented to the members. There are remaining amounts that total R$ 3,362 to be distributed to members. 130.67 (three million, three hundred and sixty-two thousand, one hundred and thirty reais and sixty and eight cents), already deducting the resources destined for social projects, and the remaining surpluses must be credited to members, in proportion to the operations carried out by them in the year 2019, considering the following criteria: average annual balance in Current Account (Deposit to view) 20%; average annual balance in Investments (Time Deposit, Funds and LCA) 25%; average annual balance in Investment (Savings) 15%; average annual balance in Credit Income 20%; and, average annual balance in Service Revenue 20%. After the presentation, and there being no doubts, the assembly, unanimously of the delegates present, decided to approve the criteria presented. 2.3 Format for allocating leftovers Next, the delegates were presented with the Proposals for the allocation of surpluses to be distributed to members must be credited in the following manner: PROPOSAL 01: The remaining surpluses must be transformed into 100% shares of capital for members. PROPOSAL 02: The remaining surpluses must be transformed into 50% of the members' capital shares and 50% into a current account. PROPOSAL 03: Remaining surpluses must be 100% transformed into a current account. V-post otation, by majority vote of the delegates, with 40 (forty) votes in favor of PROPOSAL 01, 15 (fifteen) votes in favor of PROPOSAL 02, 19 (nineteen) votes in favor of PROPOSAL 03, 01 (one) abstention, therefore, they approved PROPOSAL 01. 3. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative character). Without further ado, the President, Mr. Ronal do Netto Sielichow, thanked everyone for their presence and closed the Assembly. SAW. DECLARATION: The President of the Assembly and the Secretary of Labor, declare that this digital Assembly meets all the requirements for its holding, especially those set out in DREI Normative Instruction no. 79, of April 14, 2020. They further declare that These minutes were drawn up in a physical document, recorded in the minutes book. Finally, they certify the presence of the following delegates: 1 Ademar Antonio Wendling 2 Adilso Collioni Ribeiro 3 Airton Cardoso Doria 4 Airton Favarim 5 Aleksandra Bec Da Silva 6 Alex Sandro Alve s De Oliveira 7 Alfredo Ronaldo Lindemann 8 Aline Colombo 9 Anderson Aguiar Rodrigues 9 10 Andre dos Santos Ribas 11 Angelica Santos Batista Boy 12 Antonio Carlos Correa Pascoal 13 Antonio Carlos Gomes 14 Antonio Raupp 15 Arcione Piva 16 Aurea Ca rdoso 17 Barbara Cristina Santos de Castro Fortes 18 Breno Sarmento Dutra 19 Bruno Oliveira de Castro 20 Camila Luconi Viana 21 Camila Vargas Canabarro 22 Cariana De Fraga Porto 23 Carla Cristina Miranda Xavier 24 Carla Katsurayama 25 Carlos Alberto Lanfredi 26 Carlos Alexandre Tanski 27 Carlos Leonardo Vargas de Carvalho 28 Carlos Odone Batista 29 Carlos Reichert 30 Carmen Teresa Umpierre Munhoz 31 Cesar Antonio Herrmann 32 Cesar Augusto Maia 33 Cesar Valmor Aguiar 34 Cinthia Barz M de Almeida 35 Claudio Dartora 36 Claus Reuwsaat 37 Cleber Rodrigues Soares 38 Cleber Silveira Pedroso 39 Clecio Leite de Oliveira 40 Cristina Marteletti 41 Dalvi Luiz Scheid 42 Deivid Ileck i Forgiarini 43 Delmar Barbo za Ribei ro 44 Denério Rosales Neumann 45 Denis Figueiredo Fernandes 46 Diego Silveira de Azevedo 47 Dione de Oliveira 48 Dirceu Fernando da Silveira 49 Dyana Regina Fett Caruso 50 Eder Geraldo Cardoso 51 Eder L uiz Lazzarotto 52 Edimilson Barcelos Vilanova 53 Eduardo Lopez Meza 10 54 Eliseu Pellenz 55 Enis Rey Gil Jr. 56 Eraldo of Lima Scandolara 57 evandro Jacob 58 evandro souza rocha rocha 59 Fabio Propped 60 Fabio Silva 61 illice 62 Fabio Maggen Trivaldo Philip Pithan 68 Fernando Gorelik 69 Fernando Silva de Paula 70 Flavius ​​Lucius Oliveira Rolim 71 Flavius ​​Rodolfo Mentz 72 Francis co Luiz de Oliveira 73 Fulvius Robert Liedtke Gabriel Simas Da Silva Bussmann 75 Gelso Mello Bretos 76 Gelson Luis Olle De Azevedo 77 Giana Pretto 78 Gil Schere 79 Gilson Santos Salazar 80 Gustavo Cr uz da Silveira 81 Helio Anto nio Jard im da Rocha 82 Huli Marcos Zang 83 Iara Mignon 84 Itamar Medina Carraro 85 Ivano Casagrande 86 Jair Barcellos de Oliveira 87 Jair Ruppenthal Meinen 88 Jairton Nunes Viera 89 Jayme Augusto Pegorini Junio ​​r 90 Jeferson Luis Schroeder Machado 91 João Antonio Lara De Moraes 92 Joao de Oliveira Justo 93 João Kellermann 94 Joao Pedro Nunes De Abreu 95 Jordani Daitx da Silveira 96 ​​Jorge Luiz Avila De Barros 97 Jorge Luiz Fernandes de Azevedo 11 98 Jorge Souza Da Cruz 99 José Antonio Dornelles Terra Lopes 100 Jose Milton Silveira Pires 101 José Nivaldo Brissuella Brum 102 Jose Renato Rocha Schmidt 103 Josué da Silva Lopes 104 Juan Jose Engelman Szercsenyi 105 Juliana Bergamaschi Bresci ani 106 Katia Maria L uisa Sztudent Mendoza 107 Luis Fernando da Costa Souza 108 Luis Fernando Forte Abati 109 Luis Tadeu Belloni 110 Luiz Alberto Neto Sampaio 111 Luiz Antonio Bertoletti 112 Luiz Fernando Salazar Saut 113 Luiz Henrique Hartmann 114 Luiz Roberto De Oliveira Junior 115 Magaly Caldeira Azambuja 116 Maicol Muneroli 117 Maicon Tuchtenhagen Ferreira 118 Marcelo Benedetti 119 Marcelo Kornst 120 Marcelo Rosa Assumpção 121 Marcio Machado Morais 122 Marco Andrei Kich alowski 123 Marco Antonio Fr ancesco Barthel Ronconi 124 Marco Antonio Vieira Machado 125 Marcos Antonio De Almeida Souza 126 Marcos Rizzon 127 Maria Francisca Reis 128 Maria Luisa Dimer 129 Maria Regina Ronchetti 130 Mariana Zaniol 131 Mario Volnei Dos Santos 132 Marlon Pin to da Silva 133 Marta Madalena Peixoto 134 Mauricio Antunes dos Santos 135 Mauricio Folli Conceição 136 Michele Correa Modelski 137 Nelson Robert Schonardie 138 Neri Vieira da Costa 139 Newton Zanino 140 Núbia Bissolotti 141 Olmir o Perott i 12 142 Patricia Germann de Oliveira 143 Paulo Gilberto Green 144 Paulo Roberto Fernandes Carvalho 145 Paulo Sergio Nickel Gonzaga 146 Pedro Roberto Dosso 147 Renata Kerkhoff 148 Renato Silveira Zorzin 149 Renato Soares 150 Reunaldo Maldane r 151 Ricardo Leite De Souza 152 Ricardo Lermen 153 Ricardo Rodrigues Silva 154 Roberto Afonso Alles 155 Roberto 16. Barbosa dos Santos 156 Roberto Schwatzhaup Kellermann 157 Roger Luis Stello 158 Ronald Silva Gusman 159 Rudi Jones Antunes 161 Salete Teresinha Panato 161 Sandro Setter Rodrigues 162 Sergio Boniatti 163 Sergio Lutz 164 Silvio Luiz Garcia 165 Solon Da Costa Souza 6 Tarcisius Joseph Minetto 167 Theo Bastos Barcellos 168 Thiele Konig Choynowski 169 Tiberius Torres Almeida 170 Valderi Silva da Silva 171 Vanessa Dos Santos Antunes 172 Virginia de Moraes Knobeloch 173 William Stigger Henkel 174 Wilson Cipriano 175 Zuleidi Schuh VII. SIGNATURES IN THE MINUTE BOOK: President, Mr. Ronaldo Netto S ielichow; Vice-President, Mr. Alcides Brugnera; Commission designed by: Carmen Teresa Umpierre Munhoz Giana Pretto Jair Ruppent hal Meinen Katia Maria L uisa Sztud ent Mendoza Luiz Fernando Salazar Saut 13 VIII. CLOSING: WE DECLARE FOR DUE PURPOSES THAT THESE MINUTES ARE A FAITHFUL AND AUTHENTIC COPY OF THE WHICH IS RECORDED IN THE LOOSE LEAF BOOK, SHEET S 128 A 1 40, OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE COOPERATIV A DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT S UL RIOGRANDENSE – SICREDI UNIÃO METROPOL ITANA RS Porto Alegre - RS, April 28, 20 20 Gerson Luis Kunkel Jadir Paulo Carlotto Executive Director Operations Director