Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseAgenda of the 2020 Assemblies: 1. Election of new Center Coordinators 2. Accountability for the year 2019 3. Allocation of Results 4. Reform of Normative 5. Other matters (non-deliberative) Below you will learn more about each subject in more detail. ASSEMBLEIA 2020 Information classification: Internal Use ASSEMBLEIA 2020 Replacements: •Águas Claras •Alberto Bins •Canoas •Centro Histórico •Eduardo Prado •Farrapos •Jardim Lindóia •Lomba do Pinheiro •Menino Deus •Protásio Alves •São João •ViamãoThis year, we will have the election of new coordinators in the recently opened branches and also to replace positions that are in opened in some branches of our Cooperative, they are: New branches: •Carlos Gomes •Hípica •Marechal Rondon •Menino Deus •Morada do Vale •Santa Isabel Information classification: Internal Use ASSEMBLEIA 2020 The objective of this theme in the Assembly is to present how the Cooperative's social and economic development was in 2019. At the Assemblies you will be informed of the entire evolution of our cooperative ;) Classification of information: Internal Use ASSEMBLY 2020 When allocating the results, the member will be able to decide on: -Investment in the Social Development Fund; -Result distribution criteria; -How to receive the result (if 100% capital quota, 50% current account and 50% capital or 100% current account) Classification of information: Internal Use ASSEMBLY 2020 In May 2019, we began reviewing Sicredi regulations throughout Brazil, to ensure: •Adequacy to best management and governance practices; •Adjustment due to new legislation; •Sustainability of our enterprise. Discover the main changes in regulations below: ASSEMBLY 2020 Document that establishes the operating rules of the Cooperative, rights and duties of its members partners. Classification of information: Internal Use Corporate Object – Art. 3rd •Inclusion of “housing financing” and improvement of the text that deals with “development and implementation of educational programs...”. Admission Conditions – Art. 5th •Association of individuals or legal entities that reside or are established within the area of ​​operation of Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast. In other regions of the country, as long as they have a link with the cooperative or member. •Wording adjustment that to become a member, the interested party must propose admission, pay the minimum shares of share capital and accept the rights and obligations arising from the Statute. ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseNew hypotheses for exclusion and elimination of members – Art. 5th and 10th. •Cease to operate for more than 180 days. •Movement of values ​​from irregular or illicit activities. •Breach contractual obligations regarding products and services. •Have information irregular or outdated registrations. •Carrying out activities that contradict the objectives of the cooperative or that lead to competition. •Breach of Sicredi’s internal regulations. •Possibility for the Board of Directors to delegate to the Executive Board the decision to eliminate and exclude members who do not meet the permanence requirements set out in the Statute. ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseSocial Capital – Art. 12 •Possibility of the Board of Directors delegate the decision on re-entry to the Executive Board. General Assemblies – Art. 13 •Possibility of General and Center Assemblies being held in person or remotely, also providing for the possibility of electronic signatures. •Expansion of the number of Cooperative centers, to up to 100 (one hundred). •Definition of items that are mandatory agendas to be deliberated at Core Assemblies and General Assemblies. Electoral process – Art. 26 •Transfer to Chapter of the Electoral Process, for a new Electoral Code (completely revised). ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseBoard of Directors – Art. 27 •Meetings can be in person or remotely. •Cannot be a regular service provider or supplier of products to the Cooperative. •You cannot have 2 or more renegotiations in the last 2 years. •You cannot negatively expose the image or brand of any Sicredi entity, statutory members or employees, due to of the position. •Not have to suffer a sanction for a very serious infraction provided for in the RIS. •The president may delegate institutional representation to the Council at congresses, seminars and other events. •Responsibility of the Board of Directors for managing the members of the Executive Board (from hiring, appointment, dismissal, designation of duties, competencies and remuneration). ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseExecutive Board – Art. 32 •Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations. •Executive Director represents the Cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. Fiscal Council – Art. 38 •Cannot be a regular service provider or supplier of products to the Cooperative. •Possibility of meeting every 2 months. •In-person or remote meetings. ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseFinancial Statements – Art. 44 •Optional destination of donations without specific allocation to the reserve fund. •Inclusion of the allocation of 3% of the result to the Social Development Fund. Final Provisions – Art. 52 •Inclusion of a clause providing for the extraordinary legitimacy of the cooperative to act as a procedural substitute in defending the collective rights of its members. ASSEMBLY 2020 ASSEMBLY 2020 Document that establishes rules for the election process of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council of the Cooperative.Classification of information: Internal UseImprovement of the rules dealing with the Electoral Commission •The appointment period is now fixed, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, before the 1st Core Assembly. •For the composition of the Electoral Commission, the appointment of employees of the cooperative is prohibited and the appointment of alternate members is permitted. •The committee may apply penalties to the Board(s). •The committee will decide on any objections to registration 10 days before the 1st Assembly of Core. •You may, for a single time, determine the replacement of candidate(s) who do not meet the corresponding requirements. •Once the final nomination has been announced with the approved slate(s), a candidate may only be changed in the event of death or upon request from the slate within 8 days of the 1st Core Assembly. •The Electoral Commission will now be able to request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative. ASSEMBLY 2020 Information classification: Internal useDefinition of deadline Announcement of the Elections and start of registrations •The announcement of the opening of the deadline for registration of tickets will now be 45 days before the 1st Core Assembly and the deadline will be 30 days before the 1st Core Assembly. Tie-breaking rule • Tie-breaking criterion in voting, if there is more than one ticket, the winner will be the one whose group of candidates has the longest average time of association with the Cooperative. Inclusion of Day Counting Rules •Counted in days consecutive, excluding the starting day and including the ending day, and if the due date falls on a holiday or weekend, the deadline is considered the next business day. ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseImprovement of ticket registration rules •The registration protocol must include the representative, email address or contact telephone number. •The registered slates must be published on the day following the end of the registration period. •Any person, whether associated or not, may present an objection, duly accompanied by supporting documents, guaranteeing the contested party's right to reply. •The committee will decide on any objections to registration up to 10 days before the 1st Core Assembly, and may request additional information or determine measures. •Addition of documents (protocol signed by everyone, certificates and CV) to be submitted upon registration. Improvement of the rules that deal with the Approval of Registrations •Non-approval will cover the entire slate, even when the objection granted concerns only one or some of its components. •No possibility of appealing the decision on whether or not to approve the plate(s). ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseInclusion of prohibited practices and sanctions in the Code •Use information protected by banking secrecy or the General Data Protection Law; •Adopt practices that may cause harm or wear and tear on the image of Sicredi or any of Sicredi’s member entities; •Threatening or coercing members or employees of the Cooperative; •Propagating untruths or information without due proof; •Offer advantages or privileges in exchange for votes; •Use the Sicredi brand; •Breach current legislation, the Cooperative's Bylaws or this Code. ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseInclusion of Penalties for the Offending Member (applied alternately or cumulatively): •Warning, in writing; •Temporary suspension of any manifestation of propaganda for the party, in any medium and location; •Revocation of the candidate's candidacy. Guaranteed right to defense of the ticket The Electoral Commission may provide, in minutes, other prohibited practices and penalties. All penalties applied will be communicated by the Electoral Commission at the Assemblies. ASSEMBLY 2020 ASSEMBLY 2020 Document that defines the process of Core Assemblies.Classification of information: Internal UseMeetings and Core Assemblies • Core meetings can be in person, remotely, physically or electronically, to be defined by the Board of Directors. •Minimum number of 10 votes per nucleus for the remote Nucleus Assembly to be considered valid; •Alternative proposals presented at the Assemblies by members will be taken to the next groups if the one from the group that proposed is the winner. Cores •No maximum number of cores gathered in the same Assembly. Core Coordinator •Specification of the requirement to use the Cooperative's financial solutions regularly for at least 2 financial solutions. ASSEMBLY 2020 Classification of information: Internal UseProcess for electing Nucleus Coordinators •Need to register in advance up to 2 days before the Assembly of your Nucleus to compete; •Prediction of vacancy in the Coordinator's role if transferred to another nucleus; •Excluded the possibility of the Coordinator have access to member contact information; •In the event of a tie in the Assembly, the effective Coordinator will break the tie. In case of absence of the Effective Member, the Substitute Coordinator will break the tie. In the absence of the Substitute, a new vote will be held and if a tie remains, the matter will be considered not approved. •In the event of the Coordinator's absence at the General Assembly, he or she must notify his or her alternate and the Cooperative. The Cooperative will inform the Center at the 1st Assembly of Next core. •New rule for presenting the group's vote at the General Assembly when the effective Coordinator and the Substitute are absent. ASSEMBLY 2020 ASSEMBLY 2020 Document that governs the systemic relations between the entities that make up Sicredi.Classification of information: Internal UseIntegration into the system •Adopt the Sicredi brand in accordance with regulations and within the limits of the use license. Sicredi Fundamental Rules •Provision that the cooperative will be able to carry out local or interfinancial funding between cooperatives. New infraction of a serious nature •Using unapproved systems and without the appropriate structure that meets the security requirements defined by Sicredi, the standards of good practices and governance and the general principles provided for in the Legislation and other regulatory standards. Infringement not applicable to approval requests in progress until RIS approval. ASSEMBLEIA 2020 Information classification: Internal useNova Infringement of a very serious nature • Negatively exposing, or denigrating, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, by any means, verbal or written. •Perform, through intent or negligence, any other act that causes damage or damage to the image of Sicredi or any of the entities forming part of the System. New Penalties •Suspension of the exercise of office by members of the Councils and/or Executive Board, in the case of a very serious infraction, without prejudice to the communication of facts to the Central Bank of Brazil and/or other supervisory body(ies); •Ineligibility for any position on the Board and/or Executive Board, in any Sicredi entity. Inclusion of a rule for the application of Penalties provided for in the RIS •In case of failure by the competent entity to assess the infraction, SicrediPar or any Center, as the case may be, may REQUEST the appropriate measures to be taken. •If the omission persists, SicrediPar may decide by applying the corresponding sanctions. ASSEMBLEIA 2020 ASSEMBLEIA 2020 Document that establishes rules for registration, receipt of resources and reporting of benefited projects.•Types of project that can be supported; •Who can register projects; •Registration process; •Selection and approval of projects; •Release and use of resources; •Execution of projects and accountability; •Disclosure of projects; •Responsibilities •Sanctions in case of non-compliance.Classification of information: Internal Use ASSEMBLEIA 2020 In this item, we will present other matters of interest to members, which are not deliberative, such as news in financial solutions, initiatives for 2020, among other topics.Classification of information: Internal UseAssociate: We are waiting for you at yourAssembly of Core. Click on the link next to your agency to check the date and location and confirm your presence. If you have any questions, contact us through our networks social. Facebook and Instragam: Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Whatsapp: 3358 -4770 ASSEMBLY 2020 Águas Claras: https://bit.ly/agaguas Alberto Bins: https://bit.ly/albertobins Alvorada: https://bit.ly/agalvorada Cachoeirinha: https://bit.ly/cachoeirinha Canoas: https://bit.ly/agcanoas Centro Histórico and Menino Deus: https://bit.ly/agchistorico Eduardo Prado and Equestrian: https://bit.ly/ agzonasul Esteio: https://bit.ly/agesteio Farrapos: https://bit.ly/agfarraposGlorinha: https://bit.ly/agglorinha Glorinha: https://bit.ly/aglomba Gravataí and Morada do Vale: https://bit.ly/aggravatai Jardim Lindóia: https://bit.ly/aglindoia Protásio Alves and Carlos Gomes: https://bit. ly/agprotasio São João: https://bit.ly/agsaojoao Sapucaia do Sul: https://bit.ly/agsapucaia Viamão and Santa Isabel: https://bit.ly/agviamao