Classification of information: Internal Use Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER I - OBJECT Art. 1. The Social Development Fund of Sicredi União Metropolitana RS aims to support actions of collective interest and in favor of the development of society, in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative, which comprises the municipalities of Porto Alegre, Alvorada, Cac hoeirinha, Canoas, Esteio, Glorinha, Gravataí, Sapucaia do Sul and Viamão. CHAPTER II - RESOURCES Art. 2º. The Social Development Fund is a statutory fund, with annual allocation of part of the result determined at the end of each year, as defined in the Bylaws. Sole paragraph: The Board of Directors will annually define the criteria for dividing resources between agencies and headquarters of the Cooperative. Resources not used in the same year remain available for use in the following year. CHAPTER III - PROJECTS Art. 3. The resources from the Social Development Fund will be allocated to: I. Educational Projects: projects aimed at improving educational and human development processes, such as: training, conservation and expansion of libraries, improvements to the structures of entities focused on education, teaching materials , furniture and utensils . II. Cultural Projects: these are activities that aim to guarantee access and expand the community's cultural practices, developing collective activities focused on theater, music, dance, research and their respective materials. Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Information classification: Internal use III. Sports Projects: aim at the social inclusion of young people and adults through the practice of sports. Examples: acquisition of materials, equipment for sports practice, hiring an instructor and developing local athletes. IV. Sustainability Projects: aimed at preserving, conserving and improving the environment with a view to improving the community's quality of life, such as: community gardens, revitalization of public squares, recycling, preservation of natural resources and eco-efficient projects. V. Security Projects: include projects that aim to improve the security of community where the agency operates, such as: installation of video cameras, alarms, accident prevention and signage. SAW. Health Projects: aim to prevent and improve community health, such as: renovating hospitals and public service centers, infrastructure and equipment, cleaning neighborhood areas and combating insects. VII. Emergency Projects: aim to carry out emergency actions in the community, such as purchasing basic food baskets, food distribution and clothing collection campaigns. CHAPTER IV - ENTITIES Art. 4. To register for projects, the entity must: • Be a legally constituted, non-profit legal entity, with CNPJ and Bylaws. • Be a member of Sicredi União Metropolitana RS. • Be up to date with your social security, tax and labor obligations, without financial restrictions. • Be in good standing with the Cooperative and have your account registration up to date; Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal Use • Have a purpose compatible with the registered project, expressed in the bylaws. • Have the integrity, fairness and community recognition of the entity and its directors. • No party political ties and its leaders cannot be politically exposed people. CHAPTER V - REGISTRATION OF PROJECTS Art. 5. The Board of Directors of Cooperative, will decide annually on: • The minimum and maximum value per project. • Maximum number of projects per entity. • Value available per agency and headquarters. • Period for registration and evaluation of projects. The information above will be published on the website www.fundosocialsicredi.com.br. Art. 6th. Project registration is carried out through the website www.fundosocialsicredi.com.br, and it is mandatory to fill in all fields with a detailed budget that proves where the requested resources will be applied. Art. 7. To register, the Entity proposing the project must attach to the registration on the Social Development Fund website: • CNPJ card issued in the last 30 days (in PDF); • Updated Articles of Incorporation of the Entity (in PDF); • Minutes of election of the entity's board of directors (in PDF); • RG and CPF of the person responsible for the Entity (in PDF or JPG); Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal Use • Budgets describing the products that will be purchased or services to be contracted (in PDF or JPG) must have the suppliers identified. Handwritten quotes without identification of the supplier company will not be accepted. • Photo of the entity's facade and the location where the project will be carried out (in JPG). Art. 8th. The registered project must have a specific purpose and not multiple requests in the same project. It is up to the entity assess the main need at the moment, making clear the destination of the resource. Art. 9th. The act of registration implies knowledge of and full agreement with the regulations. The entity is solely responsible for the veracity of the project and documents sent, exempting Sicredi União Metropolitana RS from any liability, civil or criminal, including with regard to commitments and charges of a labor, social security, tax, intellectual (copyright) nature. . CHAPTER VI - SELECTION AND APPROVAL OF PROJECTS Art. 10. After the registration stage, the projects will be analyzed by the Communication and Social Development Programs Management, which will observe the framing of the projects in accordance with the standards set out in this regulation. §1 Projects that do not comply with the rules or contain incomplete information will be disqualified. Art. 1 1. Qualified projects will proceed to the analysis stage and will be classified as local impact projects or regional impact projects. Art. 1 2. Suitable projects classified as local impact will be evaluated by the Nucleus Coordinators and Managers of each agency, who will define those that will receive Fund resources from the Fund , forwarding its opinion to the Cooperative’s Board of Directors. Those classified as impact regional, will be evaluated by a committee composed of the President, the Executive Director, the Communication and Social Development Programs Management, forwarding its opinion to the Cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 1 3. The following criteria will be observed for analysis and selection of projects: • Be in line with the Cooperative's purpose; • Social impact on the locality; • Multiplier effect, related to the number of people benefiting from the project; • Continuity of the project, related to the duration of the benefits generated; • For entities already covered previously, the quality of execution of previous projects will be considered. Art. 1 4. The Board of Directors will approve the approved projects that will receive resources from the Social Development Fund. CHAPTER VII – RELEASE AND USE OF RESOURCES Art. 1 5. The covered entity must present the following documents, within 60 days of communication approval of the project, to receive the approved amount. • Receipt and Term of Commitment: Including the approved value, name and commitment to carry out the contemplated project; • Declaration authorizing your name, as well as that of the responsible institution and its legal representatives and images of the entity Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Information classification: Internal use beneficiary and their legal representatives disclosed in any and all Social Development Fund materials. Art. 1 6. After receiving the resources, the entity is authorized to begin executing the project, and is responsible for contracting and paying for items authorized for executing the projects. Art. 1 7: The entity may only apply the resources received in items specified in the budget informed at the time of registration. Art. 1 8. Projects that do not receive 100% financial support from the requested amount, the requesting entities must supplement the resources to complete the project or prove that they are capable of partially executing the project. CHAPTER VIII - EXECUTION OF PROJECTS AND ACCOUNTABILITY Art. 1 9. After carrying out/completing the project, the entity must insert the financial statement on the Social Development Fund website where the project registration was made, consisting of: • Report containing the project description executed and its benefits; • Photos of the finished project; • Invoices or receipts that prove the use of the full amount (invoices must be in the name and CNPJ of the entity covered and issued after receipt of the resources, during the project execution period, and must correspond to the budgeted items. Invoices are not accepted taxes and fees are not specified in the budget). Art. 20. Project execution must be completed by December 10th of the year in force, and accounts must be rendered by December 30th. Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 21. During the entire process of the Fund (analysis, approval, execution and reporting), entities may receive visits from representatives of the cooperative in order to learn more details about the project, as well as verify its execution. Art. 22. Accountability will be checked by Sicredi União Metropolitana RS, and if there is any discrepancy, the entity must correct the information or return unused resources, according to guidelines sent by the Communication and Social Development Programs Management. Art. 2 3. The accountability process will be considered closed upon acceptance of approval by Sicredi União Metropolitana RS. CHAPTER IX - DISCLOSURE OF THE PROJECT Art. 2 4. The Projects included in the Social Development Fund may be publicized in different media, such as at events, on the Cooperative's website and social networks, in external media (newspapers, radio, blogs and magazines), among others. Art. 2 5. When registering, entities agree to have their name AND THEIR LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES, as well as the project, disclosed in any and all Social Development Fund materials, regardless of whether approved or not by the resource. Art. 2 6. If the entity prepares publicity material for the project, it must disclose in its materials the financing through the Social Development Fund of Sicredi União Metropolitana RS, observing the Sicredi Brand Usage Manual. Art. 2 7. Entities with included projects that carry out activities (such as workshops, lectures, presentations) must place them in a visible place during their Social Development Fund Regulations Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal use execution, banner or banner, with the appropriate financing credits, which must include the following text: “This project is being carried out with resources from the Social Development Fund of Sicredi União Metropolitana RS ”. This material can be requested from the agency to which the entity is associated 15 days in advance. CHAPTER X – RESPONSIBILITIES Art. 2 8. The responsibilities of Sicredi União Metropolitana RS: From the Board of Directors: • Decide on the Regulations of the Social Development Fund. • Validate resource allocation format. • Define minimum and maximum value per project. • Define the number of projects that can be registered per entity. • Approve approved projects. From the Core Coordinators: • Evaluate, debate, approve or reject projects. • Carry out visits to entities, when deemed necessary, to better understanding of the project to be evaluated or to monitor its execution. From Agency Managers: • Get to know the entities and ensure the suitability of their managers. • Clarify doubts and act as an intermediary agent between entities and the Cooperative. • Encourage the registration of projects by entities. Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal Use • Promote a meeting with the Coordinators of Center for evaluating and selecting projects. • Promote visits to entities included in the Social Development Fund, to honor and validate the execution of the project, strengthening the relationship with the entity and reporting possible opportunities for improvement. • When deemed necessary, visit the entities to better understand the registered project, before selection. From the Communication and Social Development Programs Management: • Carry out analysis of all registered projects. • Update the regulations whenever necessary. • Manage the process involving the Social Development Fund. • Release the approved resource only into the entity's current account at Sicredi União Metropolitana RS, after presenting the documents established in this Regulation. • Check and validate project accounts. • Publicize the projects included. CHAPTER XI – SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE OF OBLIGATIONS BY THE ENTITY Art. 2 9. The entity that does not invest the resources within the established deadline will not be able to register new projects with the Social Development Fund. The condition for it to be able to access the Fund's resources again is the return of the resources or the execution of the approved project, until the start of the deadline for registering new projects. Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 30. If the project is executed with a value lower than that granted, the entity must return the remaining resources to the Cooperative's current account: Bank: 0748 - Agency: 0116 - Account: 08848 -6 – PIX Key (cell phone number) : 51980432237, and it is mandatory to attach proof when reporting the project on the website. Art. 31. The resources granted must be applied as explained in the approved project. If the entity uses the resource for any purpose other than the proposed in the project, will be disqualified and may be subject to civil and criminal proceedings (entity and legal representatives). Resources from the Social Development Fund cannot be applied to: • Subsidize the entity's administrative costs such as water, electricity, telephone, gas, fuel, taxes and duties, office materials, among others; • To purchase properties and/or rent properties from the entity; • For projects that demonstrate discrimination and prejudice against any nature; • Projects of an individual and/or political party nature. CHAPTER XII – FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 3 2. Resources that are not used during the year may be directed to other projects that comply with the regulations, upon approval by the Board of Directors. If not used, the resources accumulate for use the next year. Art. 3 3. Any and all situations related to the Social Development Fund, not provided for in this regulation, including the possibility of supporting projects Regulation of the Social Development Fund Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Classification of information: Internal Use relevant outside the parameters specified here, may be analyzed by the Communication and Social Development Programs Management with subsequent validation by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative. Ronaldo N etto Sielichow President Alcides Brugnera Vice President Regulation approved at the General Meeting held on April 28, 2020. 1st Revision: Board of Directors on December 22, 2020. 2nd Revision: Board of Directors on December 2, 1, 20 21. 3rd Revision: Board of Directors on 21 December 202 2.