2022 Report Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Message from the Leadership Relationship, development and the search for delivering excellence for our members were the bases on which we continued our expansion process in 2022. We achieved significant numbers of business, expanded our physical service with opening of more branches, we improved our digital channels, we grew in the number of associates and employees and we were recognized as protagonists in investment for social development in our regions of operation. Aligned with the principles and values ​​of cooperativism and believing that a cooperative is only strong if the community around it is also strong, we will present in this report the strength of the actions we carried out throughout the year. These initiatives seek to contribute to the quality of life in Porto Alegre and the eight municipalities where we operate. In 2022, with the Social Development Fund we invested R$ 908 thousand in 154 projects in the areas of culture, education, sport, health, safety and sustainability. Education as a fundamental basis for the development of people was present in the workshops held at School Cooperatives, which showed growth in participation and engagement with the mobilization of more than 100 students, and the “A União faz a Vida” Program with the expansion of learning opportunities for children and adolescents about the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, entrepreneurship and youth protagonism. In addition to our social commitment, we offer our members specific credit line options for financing renewable energy projects, granted with our Cooperative's own resources. With an eye on economic and environmental sustainability and respecting each person's moment in life, we are able to help families and companies make their dreams come true. The year 2022 was full of many challenges and great achievements. There were also twelve months of planning and building an increasingly innovative business, of moments to genuinely listen to the desires and dreams of our associates, of personalized consultancy and exchange of information with experts from different areas of the financial market. All this without losing sight of what differentiates us as a credit union and to serve our more than 70 thousand members, who are the owners of the business, with excellence. We will continue together towards the centenary of our Cooperative, aiming to grow and consolidate our presence with the firm purpose of building a more prosperous society. Ronaldo Sielichow and Alcides Brugnera Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 2In 2022, Sicredi completed 120 years of history. A journey that was closely connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for members and communities where we are present. Our origin happened with the founding of first Credit Cooperative in Brazil, in 1902, by the Jesuit priest Theodor Amstad and a group of German immigrants, small owners and rural workers from Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul.Theodor Amstad was born in Switzerland, in 1851. From a young age, he He dedicated himself to community activities in Germany, England and Holland, learning about the importance of cooperative actions for the development of local workers. In Nova Petrópolis (RS), the priest joined 20 local associates and, together, put this collective vision into practice to build a better future. They started a cooperative venture that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country, in addition to the first Central bringing together Cooperatives, in the first decades of the 20th century. Over the years, the model was taken forward, overcame the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside he reached the cities, maintaining over time the purpose of adding income through investments and shared resources, with equal participation and benefits for all associates and promoting quality of life. Cooperatives: 120 years of Sicredi Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 3A Sicredi União Metropolitana RS We are a Cooperative that believes in the dream of each member and works to help them achieve their goals and transform a project into a successful business. We have how features the offer of complete financial solutions, personalized service that is increasingly closer to members, in the 25 branches, in the nine municipalities where we operate (Porto Alegre, Alvorada, Cachoeirinha, Canoas, Esteio, Glorinha, Gravataí, Sapucaia do Sul and Viamão) and a way of being that values ​​transparency with all our audiences. MISSION As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. VISION To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective System. VALUES • Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valorization and people development; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for official and internal standards; • Efficiency and transparency in management. PURPOSE To build a more prosperous society together. Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 4Regional operations Sapucaia do Sul Esteio CanoasCachoeirinha Alvorada Porto AlegreGravataí ViamãoGlorinha • PORTO ALEGRE ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS Av. Mariland, 477 (51) 3358.8200 CARLOS GOMES Av. Carlos Gomes, 221 (51) 3258.3100 HISTORIC CENTER Rua General Câmara, 238 (51) 3287.2800 EDUARDO PRADO Rua Eduardo Prado, 1844 (51) 3249.8507 FARRAPOS Av. Farrapos, 2462 (51) 3375.6000 INDEPENDÊNCIA Av. Independência, 925, Lj 102 - (51) 3212.3232 HÍPICA Avenida Edgar Pires de Castro, 1570 (51) 3247.4350JARDIM LINDÓIA Av. Assis Brasil, 3940 (51) 3358.4263 LOMBA DO PINHEIRO Estrada João de Oliveira Remião, 4415 (51) 3022.8001 MOINHOS DE VENTO Rua Olavo Barreto Viana, 69 (51) 3358.8205 PROTÁSIO ALVES Av. Protásio Alves, 1180 (51) 3316.9350 SÃO JOÃO Av. Benjamin Constant, 155 (51) 3374.5200 ALVORADA Av. Presidente Getúlio Vargas, 796 (51) 3411.9750 CACHOEIRINHA CENTRO Av. Flores da Cunha, 956 (51) 3439.5000CIC Av. das Indústrias, 750 (51) 3358.8250 CANOAS CENTRO Rua Ipir anga, 106 GLOR INHA Av. Dr. Pompilio Gomes Sobrinho, 23670 (51) 3358.8237 GRAVATAÍ CENTER Av. José Loureiro da Silva, 1230 (51) 3488.8353 ADDRESS OF VALE Av. Alexandrino de Alencar, 297 (51) 3358.8277 SAPUCAIA DO SUL Av. Sapucaia, 1970, Centro - Lj. 1 (51) 3452.3192 VIAMÃO ÁGUAS CLARAS RS 040, Km 28, 19427 (51) 3498.2558 CENTER Rua Tapir Tabajara Canto da Rocha, 15 (51) 3485.2149 SANTA ISABEL Av. Liberdade, 1509 (51) 3358.8231 Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 5Our trajectory HOME Establishment of the first credit cooperative in Latin America, in Nova Petrópolis/RS. OUR FOUNDATION Foundation of our Cooperative - Central das Caixas Rurais da União Popular do Rio Grande do Sul, in Porto Alegre/RS. TRANSFORMATION Transformation to singular and change of corporate name from Central das Caixas Rurais to Cooperativa de Crédito Sul Riograndense. SYSTEM Entry to the Sicredi System, renamed Sicredi Metrópolis RS. REPRESENTATION Foundation of Sicredi Empreendedores RS, an initiative of several representative entities. The first cooperative free admission from Brazil, in Porto Alegre/RS. ADDING STRENGTHS Unification of Sicredi Metrópolis RS and Sicredi Empreendedores RS, changing its name to Sicredi União Metropolitana RS. DEVELOPMENT Cooperative begins the implementation of social programs to drive transformation and development of people and regions.1902 1925 1967 2004 20171997 2010 Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 6What difference does a credit cooperative offer? Here you are more than a customer: you are an associate and It's part of the business. Therefore, when you join Sicredi, you acquire your capital share - an amount that you invest when opening your account and that generates income as the solutions are used. What is the advantage of being a member? Being a member makes all the difference, as in addition to having complete financial solutions at fair prices, you cooperate with the development of your region and can participate in meetings and decisions through voting at assemblies. Furthermore, depending on the use of solutions and the results of the Cooperative, you receive your share in the distribution of financial results.Our cooperative essence A phrase by Father Theodor Amstad, precursor of credit cooperatives in Brazil, summarizes this view: “I don't just work for myself, otherwise for others, or for the common good. ” Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 7Contribute to the development of society We seek to strengthen relationships with society, generating bonds of trust and reciprocity, through structured private social investment actions that take into account local needs, aligned with the brand, the principles and values ​​of cooperativism and Corporate Citizenship. Stimulate interest in learning collaboratively. Based on the pedagogical intention of educators, children and adolescents are invited to explore the world in which they live. Through the construction of work projects, they are encouraged to ask questions, organize their business interests learning. Expand learning opportunities for children and young people, experiencing experiences and values ​​of cooperativism. The program's activities are aimed at developing skills such as: leadership, knowledge, creativity and citizenship. More than 775 teenagers and young people participated in the A União Faz a Vida and School Cooperatives programs in 2022 Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 8Promoting Financial Education We encourage conscious attitudes towards money, offering guidance and advice so that our associates, employees and communities can make considered choices, aligned with their well-being, with autonomy, independence and planning. The Financial Education Program seeks to promote awareness about the importance of planning for life, contributing to economic and personal well-being. Why do we support the Financial Education theme? To improve the quality of life of our audiences, bringing awareness and personal development, enabling a healthier financial life. To strengthen our operations and bring benefits to the regions in which we operate, one of our main purposes.1 2 3,148 meetings90 participants Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 9Spreading cooperativism and sustainability Sharing cooperativism with more and more people. The Crescer Program is an educational initiative to spread cooperativism and its differences, expanding understanding of how the Cooperative can add income and quality of life to our members and our region. It is at Crescer where the future leaders of the Cooperative are also trained, such as Core Coordinators and Counselors.participants2,531 meetings172 Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 10Strengthening our governance model At Sicredi, the feeling of belonging is essential, fostering democratic participation. In this sense, the Program Belonging guides, engages and encourages the participation of members in assemblies, in decision-making processes and in monitoring what was planned in the Cooperative, thus strengthening their bond as owners of our business. In 2022, Sicredi União Metropolitana RS members were able to participate in our Assemblies and vote in a hybrid format: in person and online. The vast majority of members participated digitally, through the website sicredi.com.br/assembleias and voted on the proposals he found most relevant through his cell phone or computer, from the comfort of his home. And members who prefer face-to-face service went to the nearest branch to have the help of an employee. Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 11The Social Development Fund is an initiative of Sicredi União Metropolitana RS whose main objective is to help the community through projects that develop culture, education, sport, health, safety and sustainability. In this way, we put into practice the 7th principle of cooperativism: commitment to the community. Our associates, committed to this same objective, allocated part of their profits to invest in their region. In five years, we allocated more than R$3.1 million to 562 projects. And the Social Development Fund only becomes viable when members carry out their financial transactions in the Cooperative. After all, the use of products and services from Cooperatives generate more results and, consequently, more resources can be allocated to local projects. Annually, 3% of our income is allocated to this program that promotes initiatives that make a difference in society. Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 12Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 13Highlights 2022 Auto Insurance From January onwards, our members were able to count on the convenience of getting their Auto Insurance quote directly via Sicredi's WhatsApp.Stay Protected Members who purchased their Life Insurance in the months of March and April received a very special benefit: exemption from the first monthly payment. Agro Business Day In 2022, strengthening our partnership with agribusiness, we held the first edition of Agro Business Day, bringing technologies to producers.Brands of Who Decide Sicredi was 1st place in preference and memory in the Credit Cooperative category and one of the preferred financial institutions in RS. Free Pix at Sicredi União Metropolitana RS, Pix remains exempt for individuals and legal entities. Zero tariff, to offer the best financial experience. Exempt international card Here we also have an exemption on the Sicredi Empresarial Internacional Card. Accepted in Brazil and abroad, the card also guarantees savings for companies. FNIC In May, we participated in FniC 22 in Cachoeirinha. We had a space at the Business and Innovation Fair to help event visitors thrive.New Agency Cachoeirinha Also in the month of May, the new Cachoeirinha Agency was inaugurated, with a completely renovated structure at General Flores da Cunha, 956. Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 14Passage Tag Already used at toll booths, the Passage Tag is also now accepted in parking lots of the Iguatemi and Praia de Belas shopping malls, in Porto Alegre. Fenasul Expoleite Increasingly strengthening our relationship with rural producers, in May we were present at Fenasul Expoleite, in Mainstay. Tampinha do Bem In yet another social action, our agencies became collection points to collect caps and seals to be sent to charitable organizations. Brazilian Retail Fair We were sponsors and took a stand to FBV, the biggest event in the sector in Brazil, an excellent opportunity to generate business. Cooperative Truck In 2022, our Cooperative Truck accelerated and, with the collaboration of society, our agencies and volunteers, raised more than 35 tons of food. Prized Cooperation The first promotion in the history of the Cooperative drew among our members a 0km Jeep Compass, 26 savings of R$10,000 and more than 6,000 instant gifts. Renewable Energy Forum We had a space in the program to talk about Sicredi's role in solar energy financing, as well as a stand at the event, answering all visitors' questions.FEARG Honoring the region's agribusiness, we participated in the Fair in July Agro-rural and Tourism of Gravataí. Visitors were able to learn about our solutions to develop the sector. McDia Feliz We were partners with the Children's Cancer Institute, in another year of supporting the organization of McDia Feliz. Our branches were ticket sales points, and McDonald’s stores had Sicredi machines.Caixa Recicladora The Canoas Niterói and Cachoeirinha branches presented a new feature to facilitate self-service for members, with cash deposits, with the amount being transferred instantly. Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 15Yearbook Value 1000 We achieved 8th position in the 100 Largest Banks category, in the yearbook organized by Fundação Getúlio Vargas and Serasa Experian.Apple Pay Now our members can also make payments through Apple Pay (in addition to Samsung Pay) using the iPhone as a credit card. Travel Insurance More security also when traveling nationally and internationally for our members and families. With Insurance Travel, we protect our members from possible unforeseen events. Victory Pass Promotion Our members were able to score a great goal using their Visa credit card. With each purchase worth R$30, they were able to compete for more than R$1 million in prizes. Gravataí Centro Agency In October, the Gravataí Centro Agency moved to a larger space to offer an even better financial experience to members: on Av. José Loureiro da Silva 1,230.70 thousand members With the strength of cooperativism in the search for a more prosperous future, we reached the number of 70 thousand members at Sicredi União Metropolitana RS. Race for Life We sponsored the 28th edition of the Race for Life, held by the Children's Cancer Institute. Our stand featured a photo booth, face painting and distribution of balloons for children. Moinhos de Vento Agency In November, we opened another Cooperative branch, in the traditional Moinhos de Vento neighborhood, in Porto Alegre. The agency It is located at Rua Olavo Barreto Viana, 69, almost opposite Parcão. Shopping Sicredi Now our members have a marketplace at their disposal, where they can find thousands of products, and make their purchases with comfort and security. Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 16Evolution of the Cooperative Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 17MELLOWS COLLABORATORS TOTAL RESOURCES MANAGED (in thousands of reais)Sicredi União Metropolitana RS 18CREDIT OPERATIONS RESULTNET EQUITY (in thousands of reais) (in thousands of reais) (in thousands of reais)sicredi.com.br/uniao-metropolitana@sicrediuniaometropolitanars Sicredi União Metropolitana RS(51) 3358.4770