Report 2021 Sicredi União Metropolitana RSWord of the Council Looking at the past to build and transform the future. In this way, Sicredi União Metropolitana RS remains close and connected with its members, employees and society. 2021 was a year of great challenges, but we managed to grow, support businesses and contribute to the development of the regions where we operate. Expansion was one of our premises. We opened branches, increased the number of employees, We invest in people qualifications and in modern, collaborative environments to strengthen our associates’ networking. Aligned with cooperative values ​​and believing in the importance of personalized relationships, we kept all our branches open and following security protocols. What we will present in this report goes beyond the financial result, as it will also show the strength of our social programs and volunteering initiatives for building a more prosperous society. Actions such as those carried out by the Social Development Fund have benefited more and more families. In 2021, it positively impacted more than 33 thousand people, in the nine cities where the Cooperative operates. With School Cooperatives and the A União faz a Vida Program, we expand learning opportunities for children and adolescents about the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, entrepreneurship and youth protagonism in a hybrid scenario, beyond the classroom. Everything we built in 2021 was based on a true interest in understanding the situation of each of our more than 60 thousand members and also looking at our employees. We continue preparing for the next challenges. Together, always together! Ronaldo Sielichow and Alcides Brugnera President and Vice-President of the Board of Directors of Sicredi União Metropolitana RS President of the Board Ronaldo Sielichow Vice-President Chairman of the Board Alcides Brugnera Advisors Arcione Piva Claudionir Ceron Daniel Basso Diogo Ferri Chamun Ferdinando de Jesus Mota Junior Juliana Bergamaschi Bresciani Nara Beatriz Cavalli Rodrigues Silvio Luiz Garcias Tarcisio Pires Morais Valdir Bernardo FellerBoard of Directors (Management 2022-2026)Fiscal Council (Management 2019- 2022) Effective advisors Eduardo Lucas Sperb Flavio da Costa Lerina Luis Adelar Ferreira Alternate advisors Aquiles de Mattos Felipe Faccioni Rosilene Condotta FerrazExecutive Board Executive Director Gerson Luis Kunkel Business Director João Luiz de Almeida T ortorelli Operations Director Jadir Paulo Carlotto • 5.5 million members • 2.2 thousand branches • Presence in 26 states and the DF • 33.7 thousand employees• In more than 200 municipalities, it is the only financial institution • More than 300 financial solutions • R$ 197.6 billion in assets • R$ 25.1 billion in equity • R$ 129.5 billion in total deposits • R $207.9 billion in total managed resources • R$ 133.1 billion in credit operations • Result of R$ 4.7 billionSicredi numbers in BrazilWe chose to follow a collective path to offer intelligent solutions for your financial development, because we understand that the best choices are those that bring results for everyone. We offer more than 300 financial products and services in a simple and close way for you, your company and your agribusiness. But what makes us different is that when you join, you acquire a small share of your cooperative, becoming the owner of Sicredi, having a voice over business decisions and participating in the results. Our mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Our vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Our values ​​- Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business. - Respect for the individuality of the member. - Valuing and developing people. - Preservation of the institution as a system. - Respect for official and internal standards. - Efficiency and transparency in management. Sicredi * Data from December 2021 Sicredi Administrative Center Sicredi Administrative CenterSapucaia do Sul Esteio Canoas Cachoeirinha Alvorada Porto AlegreGravataí ViamãoGlorinhaWe are a Cooperative that believes in the dream of each member and works to help them achieve their goals and transform a project into a successful business. Our characteristics include offering complete financial solutions, personalized service that is increasingly closer to members, in the 23 branches, nine municipalities where we operate (Porto Alegre, Alvorada, Cachoeirinha, Canoas, Esteio, Glorinha, Gravataí, Sapucaia do Sul and Viamão) and a way of being that values ​​transparency with all its audiences. Our expansion in 2021 was possible because employees and associates, as owners of the business, were partners in the purpose of growth. Furthermore, by allocating part of the Cooperative's results, they contributed to the development of its regions. With this, we demonstrate our solidity, management efficiency and conviction that the sum of small actions is capable of building a more prosperous and happy society. Sicredi União Metropolitana RS Highlights of the year The year 2021 was very important for Sicredi União Metropolitana RS. In addition to growth in physical area, as we opened four branches (Hípica and Independência, in Porto Alegre; Sapucaia do Sul, and Niterói, in Canoas); we also increased the number of employees, associates, volume of business and we had an increase in investments. The trust of our members in the strength and robustness of the Cooperative has allowed us to prosper together. Respecting current health protocols, we kept our branches open and functioning in order to preserve everyone's health and safety. With larger, more modern spaces conducive to networking, we reaffirm our purpose of being a financial institution made by people for people and based on close relationship. Each new branch has an exclusive environment to make associates feel at home, with a meeting room, auditorium and big screen available for meetings with clients or suppliers. In this scenario we also seek the efficient use of technological resources so that, regardless of the choice of channel used, the member is always sure that during the service he continues to receive the best possibilities for his moment in life. Also We continue to be available on WhatsApp, with a team of experts who bring greater agility and convenience to members. With our virtual assistant Theo, artificial intelligence, we made it possible for doubts to be clarified and services to be guided. Aware of the existing window of opportunities based on good prices, quality of products offered and benefits of credit unions, we kept our members satisfied. We work to add income to member and the community through fairer rates and tariffs, in addition, of course, to the distribution of our results, to our associates and to social projects. Together, we build a more prosperous society. Annually, 3% of our income is allocated to support projects that promote culture, education, sport, environment, health and safety. The program is the result of the choice of the cooperative's members, who in an assembly decided to allocate part of the result of the cooperative to support projects that transform our region. In 2021, the Social Development Fund completed four years of existence and to present the projects covered, we held a live broadcast on our social networks. The attractions thrilled everyone who followed the event online. In the same way as the video with testimonials about the impact of this support from the Cooperative to improve the quality of life of many families in Porto Alegre and metropolitan region. The entire relationship we have with local entities and society is proven through the Social Development Fund numbers. From 2018 to 2021, R$2.2 million were spent on 408 projects in the nine municipalities in which we operate. All actions came from non-profit entities and members of the Cooperative, which, after pre-selection, underwent analysis by the committee of each region where they were implemented, and were within the criteria established by notice. It is these bonds of trust that allow us to grow together. As is our mission, we are made of people for people. We value the relationship. For us, being close means offering financial solutions to add income, promote business and also contribute to improving everyone's quality of life. This is what sets us apart as a financial institution. 2021 numbers • R$808 thousand invested • 155 projects covered • 33 thousand people directly benefited • 270 thousand people indirectly positively impacted Since 2018, the A União Faz a Vida Program has encouraged children and teenagers from three schools in the municipality of Glorinha to be protagonists of their learning process. Based on attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship, they develop projects that relate different areas of knowledge. The search for this globalized knowledge, important for comprehensive training of the individual, with the participation of educators, parents and the local community. In 2021, the Program continued to be developed at the Coronel Sarmento, São Pedro and Álvaro Ferrugem Schools. The main intention of the pedagogical proposal was to maintain support for educators and, thus, enable activities in a hybrid teaching system. In this face-to-face/remote transition process, planning was essential to maintain the quality of learning in the classroom and remotely. It was possible to continue the training aimed at the local Department of Education and Coordination (Trails of Innovation); the study group with school managers to establish common pedagogical objectives; the web journey, pedagogical exchanges between teachers from Glorinha and other regions; hybrid education and digital tools workshops for educators and pedagogical consultancies with a focus on learning projects. A The perspective for 2022 is to expand the network to other municipalities and strengthen the relationship of trust established with schools and the Municipal Department of Education of Glorinha through training and consultancy aimed at educators. We increasingly want to encourage intercooperation and citizenship actions to promote quality education for the children and young people who participate in the project. At Sicredi União Metropolitana RS, we believe in the role of education combined with Cooperativism to develop youth protagonism. One of the initiatives is our School Cooperatives Program. Through it, we seek to expand learning opportunities for children and adolescents, who, after school hours, voluntarily participate in workshops and training focused on cooperativism, developing leadership, financial education and entrepreneurship. In 2021, it was necessary to be bold in the teaching methodology of school cooperatives, yet another adapt activities to the reality of young people and offer learning spaces beyond the classroom. Moments of intercooperation enabled actions to expand knowledge. Among them, for example, the mobilization of school cooperatives to join new members and a “Feirinha”, at the headquarters of the Cooperative, to exhibit their learning objects. The training carried out with teachers to apply the methodology is also worth highlighting. teaching method used in the construction of the process of a school cooperative through the Cooperlândia game. Among the actions carried out to bring children closer to the history of Cooperativism is the field trip to the city of Nova Petrópolis, in the mountains of Rio Grande do Sul. On that occasion, it was possible to deepen knowledge based on the historical review and reflect on the contribution of a Cooperative to the social and economic development of society. In 2022 the program will be expanded and will maintain actions with students, as well as ongoing training for advisors. With the support of pedagogical advisors, the Cooperative Game will be developed with each School Cooperative. Field trip activities, actions for C-Day and the second edition of the “Feirinha” are planned. Volunteering actions In 2021, volunteering was very present among the Cooperative's employees. After all, genuine interest in the community is one of the universal principles of cooperativism. In the months of June and July, there was a great mobilization, in the nine cities where we operate, in search of donations for entities. With the Cooperative Truck, we collected more than 23 tons of food and more than R$20,000 via PIX. And all this with the support of the residents, who cheered as the trucks passed through the streets. During Children's Month, employees from the Eduardo Prado and Lomba do Pinheiro agencies collected toys for three entities in the region. To give a gift to the approximately 230 students at EMEI Maria da Glória Rodrigues, located in Vila City Nova, in Cachoeirinha, around 30 employees from the Cooperative carried out the revitalization of the school square. The initiative, which took place in December, aimed to leave the space renewed, safe and playful for children and teachers and contribute to everyone's quality of life. For this purpose, a committee was set up with the help of colleagues, partners and associates. The team made up of professionals from different areas came together to plan all the details of the action. The moment was described by employees as one of great emotion. According to the school director, the children stopped to look at the space with a sparkle of happiness in their eyes, reinforcing how small actions have the power to transform society's daily lives for the better. Other initiatives for a happier Christmas were developed by the agency Jardim Lindóia, with the collection of food baskets, toys, school supplies and clothes for local entities, and also the donation of blood, which involved the voluntary participation of 23 employees. With the Pertencer Program, we strengthen the relationship between the member and the Cooperative and improve their experience at our assemblies, encouraging them to participate in decisions. The Program also contributes to the development of nucleus coordinators, who become responsible for perpetuating the values ​​of cooperativism. In the Pertencer Program, associates, as business owners, are organized into groups. Deliberations on the agendas of collective interest of the cooperative take place within these nuclei. Each coordinator has a representative vote at assemblies and is responsible for making decisions for the members of their group. In 2021, the big news was the holding of assemblies in digital format. However, those members who were unfamiliar with electronic equipment were able to vote in person at the branches. It is an educational initiative to spread cooperativism among members, expanding understanding of the functioning of credit cooperative societies. With adequate knowledge, it is possible to participate more actively and also share information about cooperativism with people in the community. It is in the Crescer Program that also The future leaders of the Cooperative are trained, such as Core Coordinators and Counselors. By providing knowledge about the operation, benefits and differences of the cooperative in relation to other institutions, we enable members to participate more actively in management. In 2021, the Cooperative promoted 38 online and in-person meetings, which trained 407 members. Crescer aims to: • Contribute so that members and Coordinators of Nucleoparticipate effectively in the management of the credit cooperative; • Provide personal development for carrying out activities in the cooperative and in their professional area; • Form new leaders in the process of disseminating cooperative societies; • Promote the participation of an increasing number of people in the construction of new ways of entrepreneurship. Together, we design a more prosperous financial life. In 2020 we launched our Financial Education program, the Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis. The program seeks to bring financial education to our regions of operation, directly supporting members and local communities. Its structure was developed considering the knowledge about financial education that exists in the System, composing an innovative, permanent and systemic program. In addition, we participated in the 8th National Financial Education Week – ENEF, which took place from 11/08 to 11/14/2021. And on 11/09 and 11/11, the Finance Managers PF and PJ businesses participated in training to become financial education multipliers, preparing them to share the topic with other colleagues, associates and society. The training was carried out by the Social Programs area and taught by Fernanda Chidem, specialist in Financial Education. During the training, the themes that guide the entire methodology of Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis were presented. The meeting also aimed to provoke reflection and understanding of how our brain works in decision making. News for our member's financial experience Offer the best financial solutions for each member and through new technologies provide convenience and security. In this way, each year we seek to present solutions to facilitate the daily lives of individuals, companies and agribusinesses. An example of this is Pix, which since May 2021 has had a billing option available. It is a Billing QR Code with due date, fine, interest and discounts, suitable for members who use API/E-Commerce/Online. It is a QR Code option with due date information, interest, etc. And why is it so good for the member? Pix Cobrança is an alternative to reducing the fee value, which brings more simplicity and agility to the member flow. Another solution that impacted people's lives was the Passage Tag. Since the last year, she is a way more practical to pay toll. Without having to stop or face queues, members can easily have the amount debited directly from their current account and view it on their account statement. The consistency and quality in everything we offer our associates is the result of a solid past and what we do today projects us towards a promising future. Discover, on the next page, some of the products and services we offer. FOR YOU • Credit and Debit Card; • Green Card; • Digital certification; • Credit (personal, automotive, real estate and for photovoltaic energy); • Consortia; • Current Account; • Digital Account (Woop Sicredi); • Automatic Debit; • Authorized Direct Debit (DDA) • Check deposits via WhatsApp; • Financing; • Investments (Fixed Income and Funds); • Card machine; • International currencies (Exchange) • Open Finance; • Payments and Receiving; • Pix (instant payments); • Savings; • Pension; • Samsung Pay; • Insurance; • Passage Tag; • Travel Card; • WhatsApp Pay. FOR YOUR COMPANY • Business Cards; • Digital certification; • Charge; • Consortia; • Current account; • Credit; • Credit for investment + BNDES Cards; • Custody of checks; • Bank domicile; • Financing; • Payroll; • Payment and payment manager for suppliers; • Investments; • Exchange and foreign currency operations; • Corporate pension; • Pix (payments snapshots); • Insurance; • Solutions for card and receipt machines. FOR YOUR AGRIBUSINESS • Foreign exchange; • Credit and Debit Card; • Digital certification; • Consortia; • Current Account; • Credit for BNDES investment; • Rural credit; • Financing; • Payroll; • Investments; • Card machine; CHANNELS • Agencies; • Accredited agent; • Sicredi application; • Sicredi X application; • ATM (own network, 24-hour Banking and Withdrawal and Pay); • Internet Banking; • Telephone services; • WhatsApp from Sicredi.Our financial solutions A look at our future To guarantee the sustainability of our enterprise, all of the Cooperative's actions aim to develop the four pillars that guide our business: Member, Employee, Society and Company. For our Associates, we want to provide the best financial experience. As? - Guaranteeing the best financial experience for members, aiming for greater satisfaction and principality - Seeking constant business evolution, generating financial well-being - Expanding our regional presence For our Employee, we will stimulate an entrepreneurial and collaborative environment, so that everyone is increasingly responsible, dynamic, protagonists and resilient. As? - Developing engaging leaders - Implementing an entrepreneurial education model - Stimulating an environment of co-creation - Fostering a business model self-management - Promoting clear and objective communication For our Company, we want to generate results that promote the solid growth of the Cooperative. As? - Seeking excellence in the stages of financial intermediation - Increasing levels of productivity and operational efficiency - Stimulating capital formation and increasing the share of reserves in the Cooperative's assets And, for our Society, we will work on the economic and social development of our region. As? - Developing cooperative leaders committed to the development of the Cooperative and society - Strengthening cooperativism, understanding and sense of belonging - Promoting the development of social projects Strategic Objectives 2021-2024 EFFICIENCY INDEX * Administrative expenses/ Gross surplus Systemic average for the period NPS 80% RESOURCES MANAGED * Size calculated systemically R$ 3.2 billion TOTAL MEMBERS 100 thousand Evolution of company numbers Cooperativa 2019 52,460 2020 55,476 2021 60,216 ACTIVE MEMBERS (in thousands of R$) 2019 925,795 2020 1,328,975 2021 1,775,296 CREDIT OPERATIONS (in thousands of R$) 2019 529.0 99 2020 788,035 2021 1,038,687NET EQUITY (in millions of R 2019 20 1,569,470 2021 1,979,967OUR AGENCIES PORTO ALEGRE • ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS Ave. Alberto Bins, 600 - 4th floor (51) 3358.8200 • CARLOS GOMES Av. Carlos Gomes, 221 (51) 3258.3100 • HISTORIC CENTER Rua General Câmara, 250 (51) 3287.2800 • EDUARDO PRADO Rua Eduardo Prado, 1844 (51) 3249.8507 • FARRAPOS Av. Farrapos, 2462 (51) 3375.6000 • INDEPENDÊNCIA Av. Independência, 925, Lj 102 - (51) 3212.3232 • HÍPICA Avenida Edgar Pires de Castro, 1570 (51) 3247.4350 • JARDIM LINDÓIA Av. Assis Brasil, 3940 (51 ) 3358.4263 • LOMBA DO PINHEIRO Estrada João de Oliveira Remião, 4415 (51) 3022.8001 • PROTÁSIO ALVES Av. Protásio Alves, 795 (51) 3316.9350• SÃO JOÃO Av. Benjamin Constant, 155 (51) 3374.5200 ALVORADA Av. Presidente Getúlio Vargas, 796 (51) 3411.9750 CACHOEIRINHA Av. Flores da Cunha , 956 (51) 3439.5000 CANOAS • CENTER Rua Fioravante Milanez, 66 (51) 3476.7955 • MARECHAL RONDON Av. Santos Ferreira, 1048 (51) 3358.5485 • NITERÓI Av. Getúlio Vargas, 2139, store 1 (51) 3358.5474 ESTEIO v. President Vargas, 2190 - Lj 03 (51) 3458.9500 GLORINHA Av. Dr. Pompilio Gomes Sobrinho, 23670 (51) 3358.8237 GRAVATAÍ • CENTRO Rua Dr. Luiz Bastos do Prado, 1503 (51) 3488.8353• MORADA DO VALE Av. Alexandrino de Alencar, 297 (51) 3358.8277 SAPUCAIA DO SUL Av. Sapucaia, 1970, Centro - Lj. 1 (51) 3452.3192 VIAMÃO • ÁGUAS CLARAS RS 040, Km 28, 19427 (51) 3498.2558 • CENTRO Rua Tapir Tabajara Canto da Rocha, 15 (51) 3485.2149 • SANTA ISABEL Av. Liberdade, 1509 (51) 3358.8231 NITER OI ALVORADA SAPUCAIA DO SUL SANTA ISABEL SÃO JOÃO JARDIM LINDÓIAwww.sicredi.com.br/uniao- metropolitan@sicrediuniaometropolitanarsSicredi União Metropolitana RS (51) 3358.4770