Iguaternl Busrness Avemda NHO Peganha, 2.900 9“ floor — Chacara das Pedras 91 330—001— Porto Alegre — RS — Brasrl _ _ Te1.+55 51320443500 Building a better ey.c0m.br working world Independent auditor's report on the financial statements To the Administrators and Associates of the Cooperativa de Crédito, Poupanga e Investimento Sul Riograndense - Sicredi Uniao Metropolitana RS Porto Alegrel RS Opinion We examined the financial statements of the Cooperativa de Credito, Poupanga e Investimento Sul Riograndense - Sicredi Uniao Metropolitana RS (“Cooperative”), which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2021 and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, comprehensive income, changes in liquid assets and cash flows for the year ending on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present adequately, in all material aspects, the equity and financial position of Cooperativa de Crédito, Poupangza e Investimento Sul Riograndense - Sicredi Uniao Metropolitana RS - Sicredi Esséncia as of December 31, 2021, the performance of its operations and its cash flows to the year ending on that date, in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Basis for our opinion audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities, in accordance with these norms, are described in the following section, entitled “Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and We comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Emphasis - Restatement of corresponding values ​​We draw attention to explanatory note no. 2, the financial statements, which describes the restatements made on the values ​​corresponding to the year ended December 31, 2020, related to reclassifications of: (i) balances in investments in investment funds for cash and cash equivalents, due to their immediate convertibility, (ii) the balances of inflows from intercooperative deposits for revenue from financial intermediation, due to the nature of the operations, and (iii) the balances of results non-operational for the groups of other operating income and income and other operating expenditure and expenses, due to the nature of the operations. In this context, the corresponding values referring to the year ended December 31, 2020, presented for comparison purposes, were adjusted and are being J EY Building a better working world re-presented as provided for in NBC TG 23, or CPC 23 - Accounting Policies, Estimate Changes and Rectification of Error. Our opinion does not contain any reservations related to this matter. Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report The Cooperative's board of directors is responsible for these other information that comprises the Administration Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Management Report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on this report. In connection with the audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to review the management report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge. obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially distorted. If, based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is a material distortion in the Management Report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Board and governance responsibilities for financial statements The board is responsible | for the preparation and adequate presentation of financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in the Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and to the internal controls that it determined as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. When preparing the financial statements, the board of directors is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of financial statements unless the board of directors intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no realistic alternative to avoid the closure of operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for auditing financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable security | that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, and issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but it is not a guarantee that the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any existing relevant distortions. Distortions can be due to fraud or error and are considered relevant when, individually or together, they can influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users taken based on the aforementioned financial statements. As part of the audit performed, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. Additionally: 2 { EY Building a better working world - We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in financial statements, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, plan and execute audit procedures in response to such risks, and obtain appropriate and sufficient audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than the risk arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, falsification, omission or intentional misrepresentation. - We obtained an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Cooperative's internal controls. - We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board. - We conclude on the adequacy of the use, by the board, of the operational continuity accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is relevant uncertainty in relation to events or conditions that could raise significant doubt in relation to the Cooperative's operational continuity capacity. If we conclude that material uncertainty exists, we should draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or include a modification to our audit report. opinion if disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer maintain operational continuity. - We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner compatible with the objective of adequate presentation. We communicate with those responsible for governance regarding, among other things, the scope and timing of planned audit work and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, February 25, 2022 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC — 2SP015199/F-7 / W 762:.‘/77 1*’ 7 Américo F’.’Ferreira Neto Contador CRC-1SP192685/O-9