Classification of information: Internal Use Notice Social Fund 202 3 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA 1 - INTRODUCTION The Sicredi Social Fund aims to support entities, activities or projects that, due to the amount received, generate benefits and improvements for people in local communities, without necessarily being committed to offering benefits to the supporter (Sicredi), such as brand diffusion and returns on investments, among others. 2 - OBJECTIVE The Social Fund aims to strengthen actions undertaken by entities in the municipalities that are in the areas where the participating cooperatives operate, that are associated with the supporting cooperative and that act for the benefit of the community in which they are located, highlighting the causes of Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship : Cooperation, Education and Local Development. This Social Fund will not be used to cover the cash flow of entities, events (even commemorative dates) or sponsorships. 3 - PARTICIPATING COOPERATIVE: COOPERATIVA Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA MUNICIPALITIES IN THE AREA OF OPERATION Mato Grosso: Arenápolis, Barão de Melgaço, Barra do Bugres, Cáceres, Campo Novo do Parecis, Campos de Júlio, Curvelândia, Denise, Glória D'Oeste, Mirassol D'Oeste, Nortelândia, Nossa Senhora do Livramento, Nova Marilândia, Nova Olímpia, Poconé, Porto Esperidião, Porto Estrela, Information classification: Internal Use Santo Afonso, Santo Antonio do Leverger, Sapezal, Tangará da Serra and Várzea Grande. Pará: Abaetetuba, Abel Figueiredo, Acará, Água Azul do Norte, Aurora do Pará, Baião, Bannach, Barcarena, Bom Jesus do Tocantins, Brejo Grande do Araguaia, Breu Branco, Bujarú, Cachoeira do Piriá, Canaã dos Carajás, Conceição do Araguaia , Concórdia do Pará, Cumaru do Norte, Curionópolis, Dom Eliseu, Eldorado do Carajás, Floresta do Araguaia, Garrafão do Norte, Goianésia do Pará, Igarapé -Miri, Inhangapi, Ipixuna do Pará, Itupiranga, Jacundá, Mãe do Rio, Magalhães Barata, Marabá, Mocajuba, Mojú, Nova Esperança do Piriá, Nova Ipixuna, Ourilândia do Norte, Palestine do Pará, Paragominas, Parauapebas, Pau d'Arco, Piçarra, Quatipuru, Redenção, Rio Maria, Rondon do Pará , Santa Maria das Barreiras, Santana do Araguaia, Santarém Novo, São Domingos do Araguaia, São Domingos do Capim, São Félix do Xingu, São Geraldo do Araguaia, São João da Ponta, São João do Araguaia, São Miguel do Guamá, Sapucaia, Thailand, Tomé-Açu, Tucumã, Ulianópolis, Viseu and Xinguara. 4 - ADMINISTRATION The Social Fund will be administered by the Executive Board, with support from the Regional and Local Committees, which will report to the Board of Directors of the respective cooperative. 5 - TYPES OF PROJECTS Social Fund resources will be used to support projects related to Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship causes, in the following aspects: 5.1 COOPERATION Everything that comes from Sicredi starts from a common starting point: do together. We believe that the strength of the collective makes the world a better place. Therefore, cooperation is fundamental when supporting causes. If the Classification of information: Internal Use causes was born the same way as us, from people who came together to make a difference, it is very likely that it has everything to do with us. This cause includes projects that focus on teamwork, which promote cooperation/collaboration between people, such as collective sports activities, social hackathon, social mobilization and integration, among others. 5.2 EDUCATION Education transforms, broadens horizons and builds a fairer society. Therefore, this is also an important area of ​​activity for Sicredi. Educating is sharing knowledge and cooperating so that people can create a better future. When we support education, we drive transformations and generate a positive impact, not only for a person, but also for the society. Projects that promote local education are part of this cause. 5.3 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT We always need to think about supporting actions that target the community in which Sicredi is located. We understand that taking care of a local initiative can generate a great impact, as long as this initiative responds to the real needs of the people involved in that region. Solving real needs makes all the difference. This cause includes initiatives that support the local development of the communities in which Sicredi is located, helping as many people as possible. Examples: projects that promote social inclusion, strengthening and diversification of the local economy, environmental protection and the rational use of natural resources, entrepreneurship and social mobilization. Information classification: Internal Use 6 RESOURCES 6.1 RESOURCE DISTRIBUTION METHOD The cooperative S icredi Sudoeste MT/PA will define, through Local (agency) and Regional (cooperative) Committees set up to evaluate the projects, the proposals that will be considered and the amount granted to each one. The amount allocated for support will be decided based on the relevance and social impact of the initiative, at the discretion of the Regional Committee. The granting of resources is limited to the amount of R$20,000.00 (twenty thousand reais) per entity. 6.2 BENEFITED ENTITIES Beneficiary entities must be legally constituted and present a copy of their constituent acts (statutes or articles of association and proof of registration with the CNPJ). The benefited entities must be associated and have regular transactions with the Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA cooperative. In the case of projects developed in public or private schools, they will only be accepted if developed by an entity or association. Projects developed by public or private schools, or entities linked to public bodies. If there are projects developed by entities or associations - whose creation did not occur within a school and has no link with it -, but which use school structures for their development, these are considered subject to approval for the use of resources from the Social Fund . Social Fund resources will not be awarded to projects developed in schools located in municipalities already covered by donations from Sicredi to the Municipal Fund for Children and Adolescents. Only non-profit entities will be considered. Classification of information: Internal Use 6.3 DEADLINES a) Project registration period: from May 1 to 31, 202 3. b) Evaluation of projects by the Local Committee (agency): from June 1 to 9, 202 3. c ) Evaluation of projects by the Regional Committee (cooperative): from 12 to 27 June 202 3. d) Publication of the result: 30 June 202 3. 6.4 Method of submission and approval Projects must be submitted for analysis through the website www.sicredinacomunidade.com.br. The form must be completed in accordance with the number of characters available for each field, and texts that exceed the standard limit of the form may be disregarded. Only projects registered within the deadline will be submitted to the Committees for consideration. 6.5 USE AND PROOF OF INVESTMENTS Release of the resource will occur up to 15 working days after the signing of the Donation Term and delivery of the receipt (model to be indicated by Sicredi), which confirms the beneficiary entity's commitment to carrying out the contemplated project. This signature must be made by the legal representative of the entity. The benefited entities must include in the minutes of their board meeting the receipt of resources, the purpose and the record of the commitment to the correct application of the amount received. This minutes It must have a notarized signature from its representatives and be sent to the cooperative immediately after the meeting. It is recommended that the entity prepare specific minutes on this matter. If the entity does not forward the minutes, it will be disqualified from the Social Fund next year. Classification of information: Internal Use The beneficiary entity will have a deadline of the current year to use the resources received. If the resource is not used within the stipulated period, the entity will be disqualified from the Social Fund for the next year, subject to exceptions approved by the Regional Cooperative Committee. The entity will only have its registration validated for new projects after proving the use of resources. In cases where the beneficiary entity does not obtain a concession for the full value of the project forwarded, it must supplement the amount necessary for its full execution, if it is interested in receiving partial amounts. approved. 6.6 DISCLOSURE OF THE SOCIAL FUND To publicize all members and society, the Social Fund will be publicized on the project website and in the local press. When registering, entities will agree to have their name, as well as the name of the project, disclosed in any and all Social Fund materials, regardless of whether the resource is approved or not. If the entity prepares publicity material for the project, they must disclose the financial support in their materials. through the Sicredi Social Fund, observing the Sicredi brand usage manual. In addition, entities with included projects that carry out activities (such as workshops, lectures, presentations) may place a banner or banner in a visible place during execution, with due credit, which must include the following text: “This project is being carried out with resources from the Sicredi Social Fund”. The entity benefiting from Social Fund resources must commit to and be responsible for collecting and storing the terms of authorization for the use of image and voice of all people served by its actions, events and respective publicity campaigns. Such authorizations for the use of image and voice must be made available to Sicredi upon request. Classification of information: Internal Use 7 FINAL PROVISIONS Changing this notice will be the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA cooperative. Missing cases will be decided by the Regional Committee or the Board of Directors of each participating individual cooperative, as applicable. José Flores dos Santos Vice-President Antonio Geraldo Wrobel President