Classification of information: Internal Use SICREDI SUDOESTE MT/PA SOCIAL FUND REGULATION Classification of information: Internal Use INTRODUCTION This regulation establishes rules for the use of the allocation of a value of the net surplus defined in the General Assembly of Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA for the Social Fund. The purpose of the Social Fund is to support entities, activities or projects, which, due to the value received, generate benefits and improvements for people in local communities, without necessarily having a commitment to offering benefits to the supporter (Sicredi), such as brand diffusion and returns on investments. OBJECTIVE The Social Fund aims to strengthen actions developed by the Cooperative itself or by entities in the municipalities that are part of Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA's area of ​​activity, that are associated with the cooperative and that act in benefit of the community in which they operate, highlighting the causes of Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship: Cooperation, Education and Local Development. This Social Fund will not be used to fund the entities' cash flow, events (even commemorative dates) or sponsorships. FORMATION The Cooperative's Social Fund will be formed with resources arising from the surpluses determined at the end of each year, in accordance with the statutory allocation and/or allocations specific requirements approved by the General Assembly. If the accumulated result for the year is negative (loss) the Social Fund will not receive a contribution. TERM The Social Fund will be valid for an indefinite period. Classification of information: Internal Use ADMINISTRATION The Social Fund will be managed by the Executive Board, with support from the Regional and Local Committees, which will report to the Board of Directors. TYPES OF PROJECTS Social Fund resources will be used to support projects related to Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship causes, in the following aspects: COOPERATION Everything that comes from Sicredi starts from a common starting point: doing it together. We believe that the strength of the collective makes the world a better place. That's why cooperation is fundamental when supporting causes. If the cause was born in the same way as us: from the people who came together to make a difference, it is very likely that it will have everything to do with it. see with us. This cause includes projects that focus on teamwork, which promote cooperation/collaboration between people, such as collective sports activities, social hackathons, social mobilization and integration, among others. EDUCATION Education transforms, broadens horizons and builds a fairer society. Therefore, this is also an important area of ​​activity for Sicredi. Educating is sharing knowledge and cooperating so that people can write new stories. When we support education, we drive transformations and generate a positive impact, not only for a person, but also for the society in which they live. This cause includes projects that promote local education. Examples include: financial education, fairs, events, congresses, lectures, workshops, research, scholarship awards, among others. Information classification: Internal Use LOCAL DEVELOPMENT We need always think about supporting actions that target the community in which Sicredi is located. We understand that taking care of a local initiative means promoting the sustainable development of society, preserving environmental and cultural resources for future generations, respecting diversity and promoting the reduction of social inequalities. Solving real needs makes all the difference. This cause includes initiatives that support the local development of communities in which Sicredi is part of, helping as many people as possible. Examples: projects that preserve local culture, promote social inclusion, strengthening and diversification of the local economy, environmental protection and the rational use of natural resources, entrepreneurship and social mobilization. RESOURCES How resources are distributed Each individual cooperative affiliated to Central Sicredi Centro Norte will define, through Local Committees (agencies) and Specific regional (cooperative), the proposals that will be considered and the value granted to each one. The amount allocated will be decided on a priority basis for agencies in municipalities that reach the target number of members participating in the Core Assembly, to be defined annually and based on the relevance and social impact of the initiative, at the discretion of the Regional Committee. The total amount granted to projects cannot exceed the amount defined in the General Assembly. A Priority allocation will only occur if the beneficiary entity adheres to the parameters (item 7.2 of the Beneficiary Entities). The granting of resources is limited to the amount of R$20,000.00 (twenty thousand reais) per entity. It is at the discretion of the Regional Committee to define a new deadline for new registrations of projects that belong to municipalities in which the amount available by the Social Fund was not all invested in the projects received, respecting the deadline for delivery of the projects. resources to entities (item 7.3 of the Deadlines) Beneficiary entities Beneficiary entities must be legally constituted and present a copy of their Information Classification: Internal Use Constitutive acts (statute or articles of incorporation and proof of registration with the CNPJ). The benefited entities must be associated and have regular activity with one of the individual cooperatives affiliated to Central Sicredi Centro Norte (Sicredi Vale do Cerrado, Sicredi Southwest MT/PA, Sicredi Biomas, Sicredi Araxingu, Sicredi Sul MT, Sicredi Ouro Verde MT, Sicredi Celeiro do MT, Sicredi Grandes Rios and Sicredi Univales MT/RO). In the case of projects developed in public or private schools, they will only be accepted if developed by an entity or association. Projects developed in schools located in municipalities, already covered by donations from Sicredi to the Municipal Fund for Social Fund, will not be covered by Social Fund resources. Child and Adolescent. Only non-profit entities will be considered. Deadlines for project registration: May 1st to May 31st. Assessment of projects by the Local Committee (agency): from June 1st to 9th. Evaluation of projects by the Regional Committee (cooperative): from June 12th to 27th. Result announcement: June 30th. Method of forwarding and approval Projects will be sent for analysis through the website www.sicredinacomunidade.com.br . The form must be completed in accordance with the number of characters available for each field, and texts that exceed the standard limit of the form may be disregarded. Only projects registered within the deadline will be submitted to the Committee for consideration. Use and proof of investments Information classification: Internal Use The resource will be released within 15 working days after signature of the Donation Term and delivery of a receipt, which confirms the beneficiary entity's commitment to carrying out the contemplated project. This signature must be made by the legal representative of the entity, in the event of symbolic delivery of the resources. The benefited entities must include in their board minutes the receipt of resources, the purpose and the record of the commitment to the correct application of the amount received. These minutes must be signed with a notarized signature of its representatives and be sent to the cooperative immediately after the meeting. It is recommended that the entity prepare specific minutes on this matter. If the entity does not forward the minutes, it will be disqualified from the Social Fund next year. The beneficiary entity will have the current year's deadline to use the resources received, except for exceptions proven by the Regional Cooperative Committee. If the resource is not used within the stipulated period, the entity will be disqualified from next year's Social Fund, except for exceptions approved by the Regional Cooperative Committee. The entity will only have its registration validated for new projects after proving the use of resources. In cases where the beneficiary entity does not obtain a concession for the full value of the project forwarded, it must supplement the amount necessary for its full execution, if it is interested in receiving the approved partial amounts. A entity benefiting from resources from the Social Fund must undertake and be responsible for collecting and storing the terms of authorization for the use of image and voice of all people served by its actions, events and respective publicity campaigns. Such authorizations for the use of image and voice must be made available to Sicredi upon request. Disclosure of the Social Fund To publicize all associates and society, the Social Fund will be publicized no Information classification: Internal Use Project website and in the local press. When registering, entities will agree to have their name, as well as the name of the project, disclosed in any and all Social Fund materials, regardless of whether the resource is approved or not. If advertising material for the project is prepared by the entity, they must disclose in their materials the financial support through the Sicredi Social Fund, observing the manual for using the System's brand Sicredi. In addition, entities with contemplated projects that carry out activities (such as workshops, lectures, presentations) may place a banner or banner in a visible place during its execution, with due credits, which must include the following text: “This project is being carried out with resources from the Sicredi Social Fund”. ACCOUNTING AND ALLOCATION OF THE REMAINING BALANCE Accounting for the use of Social Fund resources will be presented annually to the Board of Directors. At the end of each year, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will decide on the allocation of any remaining balance in the Social Fund. LIQUIDATION The liquidation of the Social Fund will occur upon decision of the Cooperative's Board of Directors. FINAL PROVISIONS This Regulation, approved at a Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Sudoeste MT/PA – Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA held on March 28, 2023, and will be endorsed at the General Assembly on April 19, 2023, and will be in force from this date. Changing these Regulations will be the responsibility of the Cooperative's Board of Directors. Omissions will be decided by the Regional Committee or the Board of Directors of each individual cooperative, as appropriate. Information classification: Internal Use Tangará da Serra / MT, March 28, 2023. Antonio Geraldo Wrobel President José Flores dos Santos Vice-President