Classification of information: Internal Use SICREDI SUDOESTE MT/PA SOCIAL FUND REGULATION Classification of information: Internal Use INTRODUCTION This regulation establishes rules for the use of the allocation of a value of the net surplus defined in the General Assembly of Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA for the Social Fund. The purpose of the Social Fund is to support entities, activities or projects, which, due to the value received, generate benefits and improvements for people in local communities, without necessarily having the commitment to offer benefits to the supporter (Sicredi), such as brand diffusion and returns on investments. OBJECTIVE The Social Fund aims to strengthen actions developed by the Cooperative itself or by entities in the municipalities that are part of Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA's area of ​​activity, that are associated with the cooperative and that operate for the benefit of the community in which they are located, highlighting the causes of Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship: Cooperation, Education and Local Development. This Social Fund will not be used to fund the entities' cash flow, events (even commemorative dates) or sponsorships. FORMATION The Cooperative's Social Fund will be formed with resources arising from the surpluses determined at the end of each year, in accordance with the statutory allocation and/or allocations specific requirements approved by the General Assembly. If the accumulated result for the year is negative (loss) the Social Fund will not receive a contribution. TERM The Social Fund will be valid for an indefinite period. Classification of information: Internal Use ADMINISTRATION The Social Fund will be managed by the Executive Board, with support from the Regional and Local Committees, which will report to the Board of Directors. TYPES OF PROJECTS Social Fund resources will be used to support projects related to Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship causes, in the following aspects: COOPERATION Everything that comes from Sicredi starts from a common starting point: doing it together. We believe that the strength of the collective makes the world a better place. That's why cooperation is fundamental when supporting causes. If the cause was born in the same way as us: from the people who came together to make a difference, it is very likely that it will have everything to do with it. see with us. This cause includes projects that focus on teamwork, which promote cooperation/collaboration between people, such as collective sports activities, social hackathons, social mobilization and integration, among others. EDUCATION Education transforms, broadens horizons and builds a fairer society. Therefore, this is also an important area of ​​activity for Sicredi. Educating is sharing knowledge and cooperating so that people can write new stories. When we support education, we drive transformations and generate a positive impact, not only for a person, but also for the society in which they live. This cause includes projects that promote local education. Examples include: financial education, fairs, events, congresses, lectures, workshops, research, scholarship awards, among others. Information classification: Internal Use LOCAL DEVELOPMENT We always need to think about supporting actions that target the community in which Sicredi is located. We understand that taking care of a local initiative can generate a great impact, as long as this initiative responds to the real needs of the people involved in that region. Solving real needs makes all the difference. This cause includes initiatives that support the local development of the communities in which Sicredi is located, helping the greatest number possible number of people. Examples: projects that promote social inclusion, strengthening and diversification of the local economy, environmental protection and the rational use of natural resources, entrepreneurship and social mobilization. RESOURCES How resources are distributed Each individual cooperative affiliated to Central Sicredi Centro Norte will define, through specific Local (agencies) and Regional (cooperative) Committees, the proposals that will be considered and the value granted to each one. The amount allocated for support will be decided based on the relevance and social impact of the initiative, at the discretion of the Regional Committee. The total amount granted to projects cannot exceed the amount defined in the General Assembly. The granting of resources is limited to the amount of R$20,000.00 (twenty thousand reais) per entity. It is at the discretion of the Regional Committee to define a new deadline for new registrations of projects that belong to municipalities in that the amount available by the Social Fund was not all applied to the projects received, respecting the deadline for delivering the resources to the entities (item 7.3 of the Deadlines) Beneficiary entities The beneficiary entities must be legally constituted and present a copy of their constitutive acts (statute or social contract and proof of registration with the CNPJ). Classification of information: Internal Use Beneficiary entities must be associated and have regular movement with one of the individual cooperatives affiliated to Central Sicredi Centro Norte (Sicredi Vale do Cerrado, Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA, Sicredi Biomas, Sicredi Araxingu, Sicredi Sul MT, Sicredi Ouro Verde MT, Sicredi Celeiro do MT, Sicredi Grandes Rios and Sicredi Univales MT/RO). In the case of projects developed in public or private schools, they will only be accepted if developed by an entity or association. They will not receive resources from the Fund Social, projects developed in schools located in municipalities, already covered by donations from Sicredi to the Municipal Fund for Children and Adolescents. Only non-profit entities will be considered. Deadlines for project registration: May 1st to May 31st. Assessment of projects by the Local Committee (agency): from June 1st to 15th. Evaluation of projects by the Regional Committee (cooperative): from June 15th to 30th. Announcement of results: 7th July . Method of forwarding and approval Projects will be sent for analysis through the website www. sicredi.com. br/nacomunidade . The form must be completed in accordance with the number of characters available for each field, and texts that exceed the standard limit of the form may be disregarded. Only projects registered within the deadline will be submitted to the Committee for consideration. Use and proof of investments The release of the resource will occur up to 15 working days after the signing of the Donation Term and Information Classification: Internal Use delivery of a receipt, which confirms the commitment of the beneficiary entity to carry out the contemplated project. This signature must be made by the legal representative of the entity, in the event of symbolic delivery of the resources. The benefited entities must record in their board minutes the receipt of resources, the purpose and the registration of the commitment with the correct application of the amount received. This document must have a notarized signature of its representatives and be sent to the cooperative immediately after the meeting. It is recommended that the entity prepare specific minutes on this matter. If the entity does not forward the minutes, it will be disqualified from the Social Fund next year. The beneficiary entity will have a period of the current year to use the resources received, except for exceptions approved by the Regional Cooperative Committee. If the resource is not used within the stipulated period, the entity will be disqualified from the Social Fund for the next year, except for exceptions approved by the Regional Cooperative Committee. The entity will only have its registration validated for new projects after proving the use of resources. In cases where the beneficiary entity does not obtain the concession for the full value of the project forwarded, You must supplement the amount necessary for its full execution, if you are interested in receiving the approved partial amounts. The entity benefiting from Social Fund resources must commit to and be responsible for collecting and storing the terms of authorization for the use of image and voice of all people served by its actions, events and respective publicity campaigns. Such image and voice use authorizations must be made available to Sicredi when requested. Publicity of the Social Fund To publicize all associates and society, the Social Fund will be publicized on the project website and in the local press. When registering, entities will agree to have their name, as well as the name of the project, disclosed in any and all Fund material Information classification: Internal Social Use, regardless of whether the resource is approved or not. If advertising material for the project is produced by the entity, They must disclose in their materials the financial support through the Sicredi Social Fund, observing the Sicredi System brand usage manual. Furthermore, entities with included projects that carry out activities (such as workshops, lectures, presentations) may place a banner or banner in a visible place during its execution, with due credit, which must include the following text: “This project is being carried out with resources from the Sicredi Social Fund”. FROM THE ACCOUNTABILITY AND ALLOCATION OF THE REMAINING BALANCE Accountability on the use of Social Fund resources will be presented annually to the Board of Directors. At the end of each year, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will decide on the allocation of any remaining balance in the Social Fund. LIQUIDATION The liquidation of the Social Fund will occur upon decision of the Cooperative's Board of Directors. PROVISIONS FINALS This Regulation, approved at the Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cooperativa de Crédito, Poupança e Investimento do Sudoeste MT/PA – Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA held on January 28, 2022, and will be endorsed at the General Assembly on March 10, 202 2, will be in force from this date. Changing these Regulations will be the responsibility of the Cooperative's Board of Directors. Omitted cases will be decided by the Regional Committee or the Board of Directors. Administration of each individual cooperative, as applicable. Tangará da Serra / MT, January 28, 2022. Information classification: Internal Use Antonio Geraldo Wrobel President José Flores dos Santos Vice-President