(M99 Relationship and Cooperativism RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM Strengthen our governance model Systemic governance structure We are recognized worldwide in the credit cooperative segment for our governance structure. We are organized in a System, structured based on specialization in areas, reducing operational costs, making it viable gains of scale and intercooperation and expanding the possibilities of meeting the demands of members. The entity has specific roles, providing efficiency gains to our strategy, decision-making and the development of internal processes. All these entities, together, form Sicredi. And the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi e O - coordinates the System's strategic decisions. They lead the development of Visa to provide direct and formal participation of credit cooperatives within the scope of credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater regional_ carrying out oversight of the transparency 5 governance structure. The Board of affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting their Administration, meets monthly to discuss development and expansion, and deliberates on strategic and systemic issues. SicrediPar's controlling companies. Each Centrat has a Board of Directors. O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~\ I I I I I I Associates c°:';d:3:'::reS Central Cooperatives I Vrncutarwse The cooperatives are the representatives of the Society of People, sac CentralSicredi through contributions from members. I have the base of Srsterna. Térn Sul/Sudeste cap\taL and have direct to vote role of taking the issues As objwetn/os strmular centralsicedi in the decisions of the cooperative of Interest and the decisions of the formation of savings, [JR/Sp/RJ through the core assemblies for the assemblies administer the net resources, with equal weight, to the cooperative's general resources. and grant loans Central Sicredi wndependent on the volume of members, aLe'rn de Bras“ Carmel resources aphcados. provide proper services of _ _ t t N h r Central SIcredI urna month I urgao nancer a. North/Northeast Pnnclpat link with the associates' séo (also cenuat sicredi as Instancuas decnsonas Cent“? N°"t€ pruménas do Swcredw Each cooperatrva has a Report /-\nua(202Z Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA Fundagﬁo Sicredi O - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ s' —-Sicredi Fundos has the function of Keep the essence of Garantidores (SFG) alive in Sicredi's culture. through the SFG has the purpose of developing the sustainability strategy to contribute to the credibility, systemic, and educational programs and Inlciatlvas, development, social solvency. cultural, environmental and governance aspects to expand the positive impact of the institution. Fundaqao Slcredl has a Board of Trustees. and the health of its associates. SFG has a Management Board. CA5 — Centro Administrative Sicredi Confederagio Sicredi Provides services in information technology, operations, administrative services, coordination of logistics, purchase of goods and administration of securities portfolios and securities. The Confederation has an Administrative Council. 9 Banca Cooperativo Sicredi O - - - - - - - - - ~ \ Develops and provides financial products and services, in addition to promote the System's access to the financial market. He is responsible for the centralized management structure of the System's ISCOS and the scaled administration of resources. Its strategic partners are Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC. Does the Bank have an Adminstragaoi Council? the headquarters of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperative and their controlled companies. Fundagﬁo, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores and Confederagﬁo. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting their needs of members. ------.~ . Monitors compliance with the administration's legal and statutory duties. Confederation Sicredi Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC Subsidiary companies Banco Cooperative Sicredi sicredipar Sicredi Consércio Administrator Sicredi Foundation Board of Directors CDE Broker ' C°lé9i° de Seguros Sicredi Executive Directors Sicredi Funds I Guarantors ' Asset Administrator Sicredi Centro Administrative Sicredi (CAS) 1 \.'/ Avaua. debates and recommends systemic action and positioning strategies on all matters linked or that may be linked to strategic planning and its execution, in addition to discussing rules, regulations and other systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Directorates. Report Ar1ual202Z Sicredi Sudaeste MT/PA \‘I, belonging program The Belonging Program organizes members into groups, according to the Bylaws of the Cooperative and Regulation of Belonging, encouraging the participation of members in assemblies and in the cooperative’s decision-making processes. Our cooperative model has democratic management by members as one of its principles and includes their active participation in decision-making. Its involvement in business management takes place through the Core Assembly. The Assembly is the maximum moment for participation, in which the main figures and social balance sheet are presented and O 7,716 K-\ members participated in the Cooperative's Economic Core Assembly in 2022 and 05 members participate in decisions that affect the direction of the business. Decisions are taken by the Nucleus Coordinators to the Ordinary General Assembly (AGO), where representativeness, transparency and the guarantee that everyone participates are consolidated. In 2022, the Assembly remained in digital format with the aim of providing opportunities for more people to participate, regardless of location. are. There were more than 7,700 members participating. 98th of the Core Coordinators will participate in the Ordinary General Assembly. President Antonio Geraldo Wrobel Advisors, Directors and Coordinator Ordinary General Assembly Core Assembly Reiatér/'0 Annual 2022 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Core Coordinators The group coordinator is a member elected in an assembly to promote, on a voluntary basis, 0 dialogue between the Cooperative and other members and be the voice of the community where it operates, taking demands that support local development. During the General Assembly, he represents the other members of his group, at which time he is called a delegate. Code of Ethics In 2022, the Cooperative also invested in the Training Program for NLic|eo Coordinators, with content relevant to the performance of their functions. 8 rounds of the Cooperative Chat were also held, presenting the monitoring of strategic priorities and other information of interest. The Coordinators also started to receive monthly newsletters about the Cooperative’s main events. LBERAL VISION OAS MA( F0 AND YAPAS The direction for I culturu organizational dosnjada. The principles of cooperativism determine our actions and support the sustainable growth of the business and the achievements achieved over time. These principles are described in the Code of Conduct, which guides our moral and ethical conduct. The document consists of a set of guidelines that guide the actions and decisions of all Sicredi members. regardless of their roles and responsibilities, in addition to internal and external relationships. The Code presents the commitments to corporate governance, transparency, equity, accountability and responsibilities necessary in the attitude of each of our employees. It also addresses the topic of sustainability, highlighting the preservation of the environment and no tolerance for slave and child labor and corruption. The document, together with other internal regulations, also guides employees. business partners and members of senior management, including advisors, on how to avoid conflicts of interest and situations that involve the generation of benefits for any party. It is available on the Cooperative's website and on the Sicredi EAD platform Relatér/'0 Annual 2022 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM Promote cooperativism and sustainability The CTQSCET program Promote a cooperative culture among employees, members and the community, reinforcing our democratic, collaborative and transparent difference in our operating model. Also reinforce our values, such as interest in the community, the focus on improving the quality of life of members and communities, adding value, generating income and promoting an environment of development, education and business, in the locations where we are present. Crescer Meeting with Cooperatives from Goianésia do Para — PA Report /-\nua(202Z During the year the Cooperative provided experiences so that people could learn more about How we work. Crescer is a cooperative education front open to everyone: cooperative members, non-cooperators, counselors, core coordinators and collaborators.We also held the Cooperative Essence Day aimed at collaborators. Grow Meeting with Cooperatives from Norteléndia — MT Grow Meeting with Cooperatives from Sac Geraldo do Araguaia — PA Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA Course Platform Sicredi made the Courses Platform available in 2022, an online teaching tool, free and open to pL1b |ico.The initiative is part of Sicredi's corporate education strategy, called Learning Ecosystem, through which the institution organizes knowledge trails to train its professionals and expands its positive impact in the locations where it operates, promoting freely accessible content on financial education, personal development and cooperativism. The Courses are divided into five thematic axes: Education for Social Transformation, Financial Education for a Sustainable Life, Cooperativism in Practice, For You and Your Business and For a Better World. Access is via the website sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade, upon registration. ?.‘& simui The Learning Journey contributes for community development. This is also cooperativism. “One of the principles of cooperativism is Education, Training and Information and the democratization of access to quality content on the segment, personal and professional development reinforces the commitment to our purpose of generating prosperity in the regions where we operate”, says Carla Katsurayama, coordinator of Cooperativism Development at Fundagéo Sicredi. Among the 50 courses currently available, students You can watch recorded classes on Cooperativism in Practice, Agile Self-Management, Self-Leadership, Non-Violent Communication, Social Media Data Analytics, among others. At the end of each course, the student will have access to their virtual certificate, which can be shared on Linkedln. To find out more about the platform and the Courses offered, visit sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade Reiatério /-\nuai20ZZ Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA de ooperar Promoted by the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB), 0 Cooperation Day is a celebration of the International Day of Cooperativism, with activities carried out by volunteers in the areas of health, Iazer, education and the environment to transform realities. Dia C was born in 2009, in Minas Gerais, and soon gained the support of cooperatives across the country. C-Day initiatives are aligned with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, proposed by the United Nations (UN). Day C in Vérzea Grande — MT Relarér/'0 Annual 2022 At Sicredi Sudoeste, 34 actions were carried out in 2022, benefiting more than 2,800 people. As in Tomé—A<;u, where 0 Dia C mobilized 60 volunteers in a Great Mutiréo that served more than 300 people with health professionals Dentist, General Practitioner, Pediatrician, Gynecologist, Physiotherapist, Psychologist, Nursing, in addition to Aesthetics , Hairdresser, Manicurist, Makeup artist and also Lawyer and Accountant. Volunteers also collected food baskets serving 134 needy families of the municipality. Voluntary actions in Para were recognized by OCB PA and the Cooperative received the SomosCoop PA Award in the Socio-Environmental Responsibility Category. D C.‘ ~;,-‘.-3:-«.3: .&a~: --3 . I ' \qn.-‘_“ ,. - Day C in Acaré — PA Sudoeste MT/ PA RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM Promote inclusion and diversity Geragao Diamante Program On August 16, 2022, a new life cycle began for 11 professionals over 60 years old. They are part of the Geragao Program Diamante of Sicredi Sudoeste, whose objective is to promote the inclusion of these professionals in the job market and create a diverse environment where all generations can contribute with their experiences and skills together. The new employees work in the cities of Tangaré da Serra, Caceres, Varzea Grande and Campo Novo do Parecis — in the state of Mato Grosso. And also in the cities of Marabé. Redengao and Paragominas, in the state of Para’. This meeting of generations allows the joint construction of a Sicredi way of serving, always looking at the needs of each member. Program Collaborators with the President of the Reiatério Cooperative /-\nual20ZZ Libras on WhatsApp We believe that cooperating and encouraging inclusion is part of our commitment to society. offering access to our services through facilities, in particular, in serving the Ibic public. In 2022, we were the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil to provide service in Iibras via Whatsapp. This initiative aims to promote inclusion and strengthen our relationship with this public in cooperatives. To use the service function in Libras, via WhatsApp, the person contacts (51) 3358-4770, selects the Libras option and is transferred to a video chat with the Sicredi specialist. Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA EDS Responsible Solutions soLu<;6RESPONSIBLE Solutions Promote financial education / encourage conscious attitudes in relation to money, offering guidance and advice so that our members, collaborators and communities can make considered choices, aligned with their well-being, with autonomy, independence and planning. ‘ cooperation 5; at Ponta V'do ldpis The “Cooperagao na Ponta do Lépis” program is a Sicredi financial education initiative to spark a change in the behavior of adults, teenagers and children, improving habits for a more sustainable economic life. We want to help transform people's lives in the communities in which we operate by providing more information, knowledge and good practices to improve our relationship with money. In 2022, this initiative promoted 1029 actions in the community with education °o° 72,250 people 'Y0 _ Impacted in the year by education finance/'ra Report /-\nua(202Z ﬁnanceira. awareness for sustainable financial habits. Agencies Ievaram Educagao Financial support for the regions in which we are present, driving the growth of our associates and communities. contributing to a more prosperous society. Financial Education Meeting in Sapezal - MT Financial Education Meeting in Tangaré da Serra — MT Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA soLu<;6RESPONSIBLE Es Promote eco-efficient management Eco-efficient management is one that seeks to achieve maximum efficiency in the use of resources — materials and naturals —, with a minimum of adverse impact on the environment. Sicredi Administrative Center is the most sustainable building in Brazil Sicredi received LEED recertiﬁcation in September 2022 for its Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS), located in Porto Alegre. LEED — Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Environmental Design in free translation), is an international certification for sustainable constructions. Among the areas evaluated, CAS stood out with three cases: energy use renew’ve|, efficiency in the use of mare and waste plant. In relation to energy, one of the differences is to promote energy efficiency through contracting in the free energy market, guaranteeing the supply of electrical energy from renewable sources. Furthermore, the bike park has photovoltaic generators, all 550 LED lamps and presence sensors in general circulation environments. Another difference is that when braking the elevators, a regenerative system converts mechanical energy into electrical energy, thus reducing consumption. Emissions and Climate Change Management Sicredi — a cooperative financial institution with more than 6 million members and operating in all regions of Brazil — advances its Emissions and Climate Change Management strategy. Through support for six carbon credit projects located in different regions of Brazil, it neutralized more than 45 thousand tons of carbon, relating to the emissions calculated in its 2021 Emissions Inventory and projected for the entire year 2022. A member of the Global Compact of the United Nations (UN), Sicredi used the criteria to choose audited, certiﬁed projects with strict quality standards. , which result in a positive impact on social, environmental and economic levels, in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA In November 2022 it went into operation oSolar energy park built by Sicredi in Nova Xavantina, in the Araguaia region, (660 km from Cuiaba) which will supply 140 branches and administrative headquarters of the cooperative financial institution in the State. With an investment of more than RS 30 million, the photovoltaic solar plant occupies an area of ​​nine hectares, where 18 thousand panels were installed, with the power to generate 5 megawatts (MW) of energy. Own generation will avoid the emission of more than 24 thousand tons of carbon in 25 years. This is one of the initiatives that materialize Sicredi's agenda in the area of ​​sustainability, which meets its purpose of building a more prosperous society together. Per year, the plant has the capacity to generate more than 11.3 gigawatt hours of energy. To give you an idea of ​​the size of the project, the volume is enough to supply more than 2,700 homes that consume an average of 350 kilowatts—hour/month. In addition to the environmental benefit, the operation of the plant will have financial benefits. A It is estimated that Sicredi's expenditure on the State's electricity bill will be reduced by 95%, an annual saving of approximately R$12 million. In Para, Sicredi also plans a solar plant to supply the agencies and, in Acre, the acquisition of a ready-made photovoltaic solar park is in the process of being finalized. In the other states in the Central's area of ​​operation (Amazonas, Roraima Amapé and Rondénia), Sicredi studies the use of energy credit from sustainable matrices that are available in the region for use by cooperatives in their agencies. Since 2020, Sicredi has been part of the Global Compact, an initiative of the United Nations (UN) to encourage companies to adopt corporate social responsibility and sustainability policies through adherence to 10 principles related to human rights, labor, environment and corruption. These objectives include topics such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preservation of natural resources. Relarér/'0 Annual 2022 Sudoeste MT/ PA Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Green Economy Green Economy is the classification given to financial products and services that enable the improvement of humanity's well-being and social equality , while signiﬁcantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. Its main pillars are low carbon emissions, efficiency in the use of resources and social inclusion. Below we bring some examples of our products offered. PRODUCT oescmc/10 Solar Energy Credit Solar Energy Credit is a specific financing product for the acquisition of solar energy technology to assist members interested in using alternative and renewable sources of energy generation in their activities' Energy Credit Renewable Energy Credit is intended for financing for acquisition and installation of equipment, works and projects to obtain energy @ Q E? University Renewable electricity from renewable sources, which do not generate major negative environmental impacts, Credit OC,d. Eﬁm ‘E,. , ﬁ . d.d. . Efficiency re Ito ~ energy science is a nancialization of energy investments to reduce energy consumption by individuals or jLJI'|dlCa$. Credit University Credit is a specific financing product for the acquisition of education courses higher education course that aims to assist students and associates interested in pursuing higher-level academic training. ABC Mais ﬂ Program Seeks to encourage investment in agricultural projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation, in addition to expanding the area of ​​cultivated forests, and encouraging the recovery of degraded areas. Microcredit Financing that aims to grant credit to meet the financial needs of individuals and/or legal entities entrepreneurs of micro-sized productive activities using a methodology based on direct relationships with entrepreneurs in the place where the economic activity is carried out Flelatério /-\nual202Z Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA Sustainable Finance Since 2021, we have structured the area of ​​Structured Operations and Sustainable Finance , with the aim of developing the topic within Sicredi and intensifying fundraising for Credit aligned with our values ​​and the Credit Strategy Sustainability, through the issuance of bonds linked to social aspects and Credit for solar energy With the growing demand for renewable energy, Credit for solar energy has become one of our main products linked to the green economy. Through this solution, members can obtain Credit to purchase equipment and technology to capture solar energy and generate clean electricity in their homes, businesses and rural properties. In 2022, the value Credit granted by Cooperativa Sicredi Sudoeste for solar energy exceeded 53 million reais. Credit for enterprises led by women A line of credit aimed at micro, small and medium-sized Brazilian companies led by women. The initiative includes the gender factor as a criterion for the use of resources, as well as other social and environmental factors. Report /-\nua(202Z Financial Letter In June 2022, Sicredi Ianga became the 1st sustainable financial Ietra of the Brazilian market, with a funding of RS 780 million, with the resources being converted into Credit for projects aligned with sustainability. The eligibility criteria selected for granting credit were: renewable energy, environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use, green buildings, energy efficiency and clean transport. Investments In 2021, Sicredi FIC Agoes Sustentéveis ESG was launched, the first equity fund with an ESG focus in the Sicredi, aimed at companies aligned with a sustainability strategy and that generate a positive impact on society, in addition to profitability for the cooperative member. Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS Sustainable Consortium Thinking about the socio-environmental impact of our products and services, we have the Sustainable Consortium, focused on the acquisition and construction of houses—containers and investments in eco-efficient solutions, such as water and sewage treatment, energy efficiency and generation of wind and solar energy. Credit for family farming Credit for family farming is an important sustainability instrument, as it contributes to the generation of income and social development of communities. At the same time, the segment is one of the main responsible for food production in Brazil and around the world, having the potential to implement sustainable management in production, with a view to reducing environmental impacts. In the Cooperative, family farming counted with more than 50 million in credit granted to producers in this chain. Flelatério /-\nual202Z Home Broker In November, Sicredi began offering direct access to the capital market with the launch of its variable income operation. With a new experience, members can trade shares, real estate funds, ETFS (Exchange Traded Fund, or exchange traded fund, in the Portuguese translation) and BDRS (Brazilian Depositary Receipts, or Brazilian depositary receipts) on the spot market through home broker Sicredi, in addition to digital service via the institution's WhatsApp. The home broker is available in a web version and for mobile devices, which is connected to the main Sicredi application, allowing investments to be monitored, as well as sending and withdrawing funds to purchase assets. Furthermore, in partnership with Eleven Research, members can receive information on variable income investments, while Educational content on the capital market is available for the public in general. To access the home broker, members must register with the support of the account manager, who will provide all the necessary guidance for using the new products. Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA Financial Solutions For you 5% For your agribusiness - Credit and debit card - Credit for funding, - Special check for investment and commercialization - Personal credit, for various crops, incentives for vehicle credit, agriculture and family livestock farming (Pronaf), medium producers (Pronamp) - Poupanga and others and large rural producers investments - Credit for investment with - Vehicle insurance. transfer from BNDES life and residential - Savings and other solutions - Car dealership, investment according to Your services, residential investment profile - Pensions - Insurance for your plantation, machinery and equipment - Consortium of machinery and properties For your company - Credit - Cards - Insurance - Payments - Receipts - Investments - Pensions Loyalty Anuat 2022 Sicredi Sudaeste MT/PA PA @162‘? Local development LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Promote the local economy Sicredi in the Community To further increase our positive impact, we develop and support a series of programs, projects and social investment actions that take into account local needs and are aligned to the principles and values ​​of cooperativism. We seek unity and the common good in all our actions. This is part of our purpose. Therefore, instead of raising a few flags, we embrace Causes that are as inclusive as our mission of contributing to improving the quality of life of people in the community. Our Causes Cooperation Everything that comes from Sicredi starts from a common starting point: doing it together. We believe that the strength of the collective makes the world a better place. Per That's why cooperation is fundamental when supporting causes. Example: projects that focus on teamwork, which promote cooperation/collaboration between people, such as collective sports activities, social hackathons, social mobilization and integration, among others. Education Education transforms, broadens horizons and builds a fairer society. When we support education, we drive transformations and generate positive impact, not only for a person, but also to the society in which he lives. Example: projects that promote local education such as financial education, fairs, events, congresses, lectures, workshops, research, scholarship awards, among others. Flelatério /-\nual202Z Local Development We understand that taking care of a local initiative can generate a great impact, as long as this initiative responds to the real needs of the people involved in that region. Example: projects that promote social inclusion, 0 strengthening and diversification of the local economy, environmental protection and the rational use of natural resources, entrepreneurship and social mobilization. sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Promote the local economy I Cooperate with the Local Economy Born in 2020, the I Cooperate with the Local Economy movement emerged to reinforce our commitment to the development of the communities where we operate amid the Covid 19 pandemic. As an institution cooperative financial system, we reinvest resources in the form of credit for cooperative members. entrepreneurs, rural producers and social projects. Even with the end of the pandemic, the movement remained alive in the municipalities, further strengthening our partnership and commitment to the community. Recicla Verdinho Abracado in Tangaré da Serra in partnership with the City Hall, the project's mission is to develop the community, always thinking about sustainability, where recyclable materials are turned into verdinhos, a social currency to purchase natural and healthy products from Felra do Produtor. The children received information about financial education, the process of selecting recyclable materials and also foods that will be important for their development. Flelatério /-\nual202Z Job generation With the aim of promoting the local economy, the construction of the 22 new Cooperative branches in Para involved local products and labor in addition to general jobs indirectly and directly with new collaborators for these agencies, an important movement in the development of the region. We arrived in new cities, forming new partnerships with local suppliers, to provide our members with comfortable spaces to welcome them. Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Promote the development of people Our employees are part of the communities where we operate and, at the same time, are responsible for the close and human. By investing in their education and training, we strengthen local development both by improving our ability to meet local demands and by strengthening the region's human capital. Sicredi has an EAD course platform for employees with all the information necessary for the good performance of their activities. In addition to training courses carried out by the Cooperative to further strengthen good service with members at the heart of the business. program Internship I I start Start Program 0 Start Program welcomes young talents in a methodology that goes beyond the internship. At Sicredi Sudoeste, young people learn in different sectors and prepare to take on future positions at the Cooperative with monitoring and a development program. 78 interns were effectively hired and currently work at the Cooperative. Report /-\nua(202Z ® 21 thousand hours of training for employees C, 00 1001 employees in the cooperative 60% female Trainee Training Program The Trainee Training Program for new employees aims to provide real experiences to working agencies, with guiding knowledge for the performance of their activities. Interns who started in the program and are now permanent employees. Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA Great. - Place employee satisfaction To Work? We were awarded As Certiﬁed in fourth place As nu-/2°22-Ju-/2023 the best company to work for in category In 2022, we achieved the result (Conﬁnga findex) of with your perception of (Great Place to Work). what it’s like to work at the institution. In Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS), given that it shows 0 nI’ve| of employee engagement, the institution scored 83, two points higher than in 2021, a result considered within the 0 ranking zone. published annually and awards the best companies to work for at a national, regional, sectoral and thematic level. excellence. To determine this indicator, employees answered the question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how much would you recommend this company to a friend to work for?” Anuat Report 2022 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA