72.5 Sicredi ANNUAL REPORT SICREDI SUDOESTE MT/PA 2022 THINK GLOBAL, ACT LOCAL PREFACE Message from Licleranga When we look to 2022 we see a year marked by great achievements, expansion of the Cooperative's service network and strengthening of the member's sense of belonging. We took credit cooperation to more than 57 thousand people who were not yet members of a credit union. We opened 22 new branches and invested resources in the region. We make dreams come true through our credit lines, consortiums and investment products. We make the daily lives of thousands of people easier with our financial solutions and service channels. We promote inclusion and diversity inside and outside the Cooperative, opening the doors to new employees, whether as an intern in the Start Program or as a reinsertion into the market through the Geragao Diamante Program. A meeting of generations that further strengthens the purpose of doing things together. We promote the local economy and social projects in our community through the Social Fund and the Crescer Programs, Cooperagéo na Ponta do Lépis and A Uniao faz a Vida. We were recognized by our members with a satisfaction level of over 73%. We received the GPTW certiﬁcation, which places us among the best companies to work for. And awarded in the Social Responsibility category at SomosCoop Para with the largest number of volunteers on Cooperation Day in this state. We ended the year present in 65 municipalities in the states of Mato Grosso and Para’, with 73 branches. These were important steps for our collective journey. We believe in cooperatives to improve people's quality of life and that is why all the work and commitment of our employees and members has provided gratifying results that return to the community. This is our greatest satisfaction: growing solidly and sustainably, ensuring close service to our members and local development. We continue to take care of people to build a more prosperous society together. Antonio Geraldo Wrobel Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Rﬁlafér/'5 Annual Z022 120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM Cooperatives: 120 years of Sicrecli In 2022, Sicredi completed 120 years of history. A journey that was closely connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for members and communities where we are present. Theodor Amstad was born in Sufga, in 1851. From a young age, he He dedicated himself to community activities in Germany, England and Holland, learning about the importance of cooperative actions for the development of local workers. In Nova Petrépolis (RS), the priest joined 20 local associates and, together, they put this collective vision into practice. They started a cooperative venture that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country, in addition to the first Central bringing together Cooperatives, still in the first decades of the century XX. Report /-\nua(202Z Our origins occurred with the founding of the first Credit Cooperative in Brazil, in 1902, by priest-jesufta Theodor Amstad and a group of German immigrants, small landowners and rural workers from Nova Petrépolis, in Rio Grande do Sul. Over the years, the model was taken forward, overcame the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside it reached the cities, maintaining over time the purpose of adding income through through shared investments and resources, with equal participation and benefits for all associates and promotion of quality of life. Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA CW 720 years Clo Cooperativism 120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM Timeline Discover some relevant hysterical facts from our history. 1902 Establishment of the first credit cooperative in Latin America, in Nova Petrépolis/RS, currently Sicredi Pioneira RS. Annual Report 2022 1964 System Reformulation National Financial Law No. 4,595/64, which imposed regulatory restrictions on the operation of credit cooperatives. 72$ Sizredi 1971 Law No. 59764/71 was sanctioned, defining the legal regime for cooperative societies. 1988 New Federal Constitution establishes favorable regulatory conditions for credit cooperatives. The promulgation of the 1988 Constitution represented, for credit cooperativism, the possibility of achieving the operational autonomy desired since the origins of the movement in Brazil 1995 Establishment of Bansicredi, the first private cooperative bank in Brazil, responsible for establishing financial autonomy for cooperatives and allowing more efficient access to the financial market and special financing programs. Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA 2008 2020 Constitution of Sicredi becomes Sicredi Participagées Member of the Pact - SicrediPar. 20 18 UN Global. 2022 Completion of the Sicredi process celebrates migration of cooperatives 120 years to and from Central Sicredi Nortel route in the Northeast. Migration became cooperativism a milestone in our credit history. Not only because of the expansion itself, but also because of the way COI'T‘IO was developed, based on the systemic integration of different cultures. Find out more about our history in the publication A Trajetéria do Sicredi: https://Www.sicredi.com.br/trajetoria/ Relarér/'0 Annual 2022 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA 120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM Economic participation of members members participate in the economic result of the cooperative, that is, the result of the operations generated by the money invested by members returns to their pockets, as decided in a democratic way in the assemblies. Free and voluntary membership Cooperatives are voluntary organizations. open to all people. While other financial institutions, for example, close agreements with large companies to offer a mandatory salary account to their employees, in In a credit cooperative, membership happens differently. After the presentation on how cooperativism works, everyone can freely choose to join or not. THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES OF COOPERATIVISM Which were born with the Pioneers of Rochdale and which govern cooperatives around the world, have been reformulated over the years to meet the social demands of each era. Its latest update was carried out by ACI (Alianga Cooperativa International) in 1995. At Sicredi, they direct and support us in generating positive impact: Democratic management All associates have the same voting power, with the same weight in assemblies. This way, everyone decides together on the direction of the cooperative, to deal with issues such as leadership, remuneration or even the amounts invested in social programs. Autonomy and independence The cooperative is completely autonomous and independent in its decisions, and can be controlled only by its associates, in a democratic management model. Report Ar1ual202Z Sicredi Sudaeste MT/PA Education, training and information Education, training and information for members is the most solid way to generate prosperity. Based on this principle, cooperatives promote various education programs in the communities where they are present. Examples of this action include the School Cooperatives Program, the A União Faz a Vida Program, the Crescer e Cooperação Program in Ponta do La'pis, which form cooperative citizens who engage in the development of their 6 Intercooperation Cooperatives work together to strengthen the cooperative movement. Sicredi is a living example of this, built by the union of several cooperatives, which grow together in a win-win model, bringing prosperity to its members. 7 Interest in the community Credit cooperatives can be located in regions with several opportunities for improvement social, where traditional financial institutions see no possibility of profit. In this way, each product or financial service that members purchase from the cooperative brings a result to the community, generating income, jobs and growth in the region. Annual Report 2022 THE PIONEERS OF ROCHDALE Modern cooperativism emerged in the 19th century, in England, with a group of workers who sought to improve their lives and collective prosperity, within a context of advancing Industrial Revolution in the country. This scenario brought devastating social impacts to the urban population, such as hunger, poverty, long working hours and child labor. Faced with the difficulty they faced in purchasing quality food and essential items at fair prices, in 1844, 28 weavers and other artisans got together and founded the Rochdale Quitable Pioneers Society Limited. Together, they created an alternative that, through cooperation and union of efforts, provided a fairer economic and social model. Each of the members contributed one pound, an initial investment that helped open the doors of a cooperative warehouse, starting a business completely outside the standards of the time, without employees or bosses, where responsibilities and results were divided equally. The pioneers of Rochdale marked the history of Cooperatives for understanding that values ​​and principles are necessary for a The enterprise grows and maintains its purpose over the years, generating value for everyone involved. 120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM Our cooperative essence VIRTUOUS CYCLE OF COOPERATIVISM By exercising our active role as cooperative members, acting as owners of the business, we make everyone's financial lives more cooperative and prosperous. While some invest and save, others use this amount in the form of credit to realize their dreams, buy, produce and undertake. Of that In this way, money circulates, moves the local economy and is transformed into the provision of jobs, products and services, income generation and more opportunities. Relaférfo Anuol Z022 Our business model creates a virtuous cycle that encourages investment in the cooperative and the use of financial solutions that promote the businesses of cooperative members, the growth of the community and the development of people in the region. Furthermore. through our non-financial solutions, we expand the positive impact in addition to cooperative members, also improving living conditions in communities. Thus, we can say that cooperativism constitutes a model for generating differentiated value, having at its roots the DNA of sustainability. A phrase by Father Theodor Amstad, precursor of credit cooperatives in Brazil, sums up this view: “I can only work for myself, if not for others or for the common good” Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA @2 National Presence with Regional Atuagflo Sicredi Systemic Operation We are Sicredi (Cooperative Credit System), the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. Since 1902, we have worked to support the growth of our associates and bring sustainable development to the communities where we are present. In fact, we are the Clinical financial institution physically present in 200 Brazilian municipalities. In 2022, we began to operate in all states of the country. We generate value for these locations by raising and lending resources for members from the same regions. The permanence of these resources in place creates a virtuous cycle that stimulates income generation and a cycle of sustainable growth, with a greater supply of jobs, local products and economic development. We have a systemic operating model, in which each of our 105 cooperatives has independent autonomy to operate locally, but has the support of the Centro Administrative Sicredi in technology, security and financial strength. To the 550 cooperatives responsible for implementing national strategies, taking into account local needs. Each cooperative is affiliated with one of our five regional centers, which are shareholders of SicrediPar, a holding company that coordinates, together with the cooperatives themselves, the System's strategic decisions. We also have in our structure specialized companies that offer credibility and reliability to members, such as Confederagao Sicredi, Sicredi Fundo Garantidores, Fundagao Sicredi, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and their controlled companies — the Asset Administrator, the Consortium Administrator and the Insurance Broker —, located in Porto Alegre (RS), in the Centro Administrative Sicredi. Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA MT MS PA RS AP PR TO 00 SP SC DF -1 1 :-A MA CE PI BA MG /\/0550 SYSTEM IN NUMBERS @@@®m E-@®@¢§ Net result of 5.9 billion More than 6.4 million members More than 2.4 thousand service points 105 cooperatives 5 central More than 38.8 thousand collaborators More than 300 financial solutions RS 2635 billion in assets RS 30.6 billion in equity R$ 278.7 billion in managed resources RS 160.6 billion balance in credit portfolio REGIONAL ACTIVITY Nossa Cooperative : Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA has been operating for 33 years with its Administrative Headquarters in Tangaré da Serra —MT, the city where the Cooperative was born. It is one of the 105 Credit Cooperatives affiliated to the Sicredi System. The Cooperative has 205 thousand cooperative members distributed in 73 agencies present in 65 municipalities in the states of Mato Grosso and Para. People who chose this cooperative business model where the gain is collective, the service is close and the taxes are fair. Where the agencies are located: In Mato Grosso the agencies are in Arenépolis, Barra do Bugres, Baréo de Melgago, Céceres, Campo Novo do Parecis, Campos de Julio, Curveléndia, Denise, Gloria d'Oeste, Mirassol d'Oeste, Norteléndia, New Mariléndia, New Olimpia, Nossa Senhora do Livramento, Poconé, Porto Esperidiao, Porto Estrela, Santo Afonso, Sapezal, Santo Antonio do Leverger, Tangaré da Serra and Vérzea Grande. In Paré it is present in the municipalities of Abaetetuba, Abel Figueiredo, Acaré, Agua Azul do Norte, Aurora do Para, Baiao, Barcarena, Breu Branco, Bom Jesus do Tocantins, Canaa dos Carajés, Conceigéo do Araguaia, Concordia do Retatério /-\nuai202Z - Branches opened - Branches to be opened in 2023 to 2025 For, Curionépolis, Dom Eliseu, Eldorado do Carajas, Goianésia do Para, Rondon do Para, Santana do Araguaia, Sao Domingos do Araguaia, S50 Domingos do Capim, Sao Geraldo do Araguaia, Sao Miguel do Guamé, Tucuma, Xinguara, Paragominas, Sao Félix do Xingu, Tailéndia, Tomé-Agu and Ulianépolis. Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA OUR COOPERATIVE OUR COOPERATIVE IN NUMBERS 205 thousand members I More than 1 thousand employees 65 municipalities with Agency 7.7 billion Total Resources Ar1ual2O2Z Report . .. Mlssao As a cooperative system, value the relationship, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of cooperative members and the society. . ~ V Isao To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a sound and effective system. Values ​​o Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; o Respect 5 individuality of the member; o Valorization and development of people; - Preservation of the institution as a System: o Respect the rules official and internal; o Efficiency and transparency in management. AND PURPOSE To build a more prosperous society together. Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA OUR COOPERATIVE Recognitions 2022 ‘And GPTW Certiﬁcation The Sicredi System achieved the international GPTW (Great Place to Work) certiﬁcation, as one of the best companies to work for in the country. SomosCoop]PA Prize 2022 We received the SomosCoop/PA Prize in the Social and Environmental Responsibility category with the largest number of volunteers in the Cooperate Day, totaling 727 volunteers in Para. Economic projections of the Central Bank Among more than 100 financial organizations in the country, Sicredi appeared in two relevant categories in the ranking of economic projections of the Central Bank for the fifth consecutive year, being represented by Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and Sicredi Asset Reiatério /-\nua( 202Z Best Performance Award Recognized in the “innovation for customer/consumer service” category — channels and platforms digital service”, with a case that promotes the inclusion of people with hearing impairment in digital service. Broadcast Projegoes Top General Award For the second consecutive year, Sicredi is recognized with the 9th position in the Top General of the Broadcast Projegoes Award, which brings together the institutions that most accurately estimated macroeconomic variables (IPCA, Selic rate, exchange rate, GDP among others). Epoca Negécios 360° 0 Sicredi achieved 8th place as the largest bank in the world Brazil by total assets. according to the Epoca Negocios 360° yearbook. The institution also reached the positions of 6th largest by deposit and 8th largest in total assets. Valor 1000 Sicredi achieved 8th place in the “100 Largest Banks” category in the annual Valor 1000, organized by Valor Econémico, which is considered one of the most important rankings in Brazil in terms of company evaluation. Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA @E3 Sustainability Strategy DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Strategy At Sicredi, we operate in line with the main global concepts regarding Sustainable Development, generating value for our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our constitution we have kept a close eye on our impacts. This concern was materialized in a robust sustainability strategy, which incorporates the best management practices on the topic and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. The expression ESG (environmental, social, governance, its acronym in English), seeks to demonstrate that the survival of organizations in the long term depends on them also generating value in these three aspects. Our strategy incorporates the “ESG vision” of the market , understanding it as the management itself for the sustainability of the business. Report /-\nua(202Z Sicredi's three essential strategic guidelines, which direct everything What we do: Mission, Vision and Values ​​describe the guidelines that guide our business and guide our development in practice. Based on our guidelines, we built the documents and systemic policies that guide our strategy, decision-making, operations and conduct. The Sustainability Policy establishes the principles and guidelines that guide decision-making in all areas of the business and in the relationship with interested parties, with the aim of expanding the our positive impact and reduce our adverse impact. To guide our sustainable development strategy, we established our sustainability drivers and focal themes. Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA We have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes. that s50 05 Sicredi material themes, that is, the most relevant themes for Sicredi's sustainability associated with the SDGs. Spread cooperativism and sustainability Strengthen our business model governance sm 6' Promote inclusion and diversity Relationships and Cooperation Strengthen our business model sustainably'we| Local development Promote transfDrma(;5e5 people in Vocalldades and we are present Promote financial education '....»...'.. 5m_.z.m,. 11 .4 Offer ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Promote the local economy Promote inclusion ﬁnancial Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management Contribute to the development of communities Anuat Report 2022 Sicredi Sudaeste MT/PA SUSTAINABILITY ESTRAT|§G|A To direct our Sustainability Strategy and support us in the evolution of sustainability guidelines, we count on the Sustainable Development Framework. The Reference is the basis for Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, bringing indicators that allow measuring 0 our sustainability performance at national, regional and local levels. Monitoring these results can help us identify points where we have the opportunity to advance the Sustainability agenda. i I I I I I I owlco :°V€i°\4"% §“"is ______ __> 1- II; a A l W BC 4!)’ ‘am’ ’ ________________________________ _. wzsuwwoxv . i Sustainable Development Framework _ Mission, vision: and Valares 1 /instrument _ _. T '"SPiraciona | 2030 ; PE 2023 Directors of Governance 1} Sustainability Policy Guidelines 0guideﬁV35 i Sustainability Sustainability Committees » Relationship ' V and Cooperativism """" "\ » Estl Development, , _ , . locality ~ Sustainability ateﬁla E - fetggggggveis V » Social T I S » Econﬁmico emas Focals - |nicIatIV3 I 2L"v:'r°}."::';a Pillars of Sustainability Report Ar1ual202Z Sicredi Sudaeste MT/PA Local Sustainability Reference Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA The Cooperative started in 2022 monitoring of the items that make up the Sustainability Reference and closed the year with 109 points, representing a level of maturity expected by the market. The objective is to act strategically to increase the sustainability of the business and the benchmark. lacianamentna Coopetanvnsrno ‘ 34.66 Total 109.10 points ' Local Development 23.87 EST/MATURITY XGIOS§ +160 points 121460 w points 8 31-120 points ﬁ 41.30 . I pen, “In development” W Reference Committee of Local Sustainability Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA In April 2022, the Cooperative established the Sustainability Committee to discuss and guide actions that increase the positive impact and reduce the adverse. In practice, it enhances the governance of implementing sustainability policy and strategy. The Committee is made up of the President, Vice-President, directors, external consultant, Administration advisor, group coordinator and collaborators from different areas. fibula one: /-\nua report Global Compact and the SDGs Our sustainability strategy is Sustainable Development and is reinforced through our Cidadanla. external commitments, which connect our guidelines on the topic to the main global initiatives in the sustainable development agenda. To integrate the Global Compact we also assume the responsibility of contributing to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, brought by the UN to Since 2020, we are members of the Pact engaging organizations in goals such as Global, a voluntary action of the Organization to eradicate poverty, the fight against the United Nations (UN ), which provides climate change and the preservation of principles, guidelines, information and natural resources until 2030. tools for promoting ERRADICADMI rumzmn Ellllt:AllllllJ|JE IEUALIJAIJE AnuAPuIIlv£L monnrzn EAERIBUITHRA - OIJAIIIIADE ESAIIEAMENIIJ ll|'i(M4'll'l' EIERGIAUMPA TlIAllAllllJlJEl:Ell1E IlDflS11llA.|ll0VA|iAlJ 1 n:uucAunAs BIIIAIIESE 1 new: unsssivn EIIIIESGI FALSE NORMAL DESIGNS GDMHNIDIDES PRICE 3"5“"l” 5'3 IISPONSAVEIS & (=3 aaéa cm 1 AMDGDNTRAA 1 VIII PAIHIIIIASEMEIIS MID AIIIJBAL 'I'EllllESl'|lE IJEIMPLEMENT AD m] cm EF|BAZES.,: c - - "' | — T I T — Annual Philaterium 2022 Sicredi Southwest MT /PA