Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Message from leadership Value the relationship and offer financial solutions that add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of the associate and the community. By following our mission we have come this far, with vertical and sustainable growth. We made 2021 a year of great milestones that positively impacted our associates and the community in which we operate. We take credit cooperatives for more than 25 thousand people as a financial alternative where everyone wins together. And in some places, we offer financial inclusion, with Sicredi a Linica being the institution present in the municipality. We promote the local economy, agriculture and the dreams of thousands of people, allowing access to credit as a source of achievement and income. We cooperate with social development in our municipalities through social projects, assistance actions and mainly, close relationship with the community. We received recognition and certifications that show us that we are on the right path, growing and evolving towards excellent management. We have more than 146 thousand members and more than 750 employees who multiply Sicredi's purpose of creating a more prosperous society together. We achieved results that fill anyone who lives cooperativism every day with pride, in the search for a fairer and more sustainable alternative. Let's keep doing 2022 a year of financial inclusion and growth. Antonio Geraldo Wrobel Chairman of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Sicredi National Coverage We have more than 5.5 million members and are present in 25 Brazilian states and the Federal District in 2.2 thousand branches, distributed in 108 cooperatives. Our business model builds a value chain that benefits the member, the cooperative and the local community. We choose to walk a collective path to offer intelligent solutions for your financial development. We understand that the best choices are those that bring results for everyone. We offer more than 300 financial products and services in a simple and convenient way for you, for your company and for your agribusiness. But what makes us different is that when you join, you acquire a small share of your cooperative, becoming the owner of Sicredi, having a voice over business decisions and participating in the results. That's why Sicredi is yours, mine and ours. Here everyone has the opportunity to decide and participate, this way we create trustworthy ideas that allow us to grow. Together. Q Mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. 6% Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Q? Values ​​Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business. I respect the individuality of the member. Valuing and developing people. Preservation of the institution as a system. I respect official and internal standards. Efficiency and transparency in management 25.2 bﬂhﬁes net assets bﬂhﬁes balance in credit portfolio 197.6 bﬂhﬁes 1 29.5 bﬂhﬁes total deposits Retatdrm AnuaLZD21 Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA Our cooperative Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Our Cooperativa Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA was born on March 31, 1989 in Tangaré da Serra — MT, as a financial alternative for rural producers at the time, and continues to this day to be a financial alternative for thousands of people. The Cooperative, which was born under the name of Credioeste, experienced a huge leap in growth when it joined the Sistema Sicredi in 1997, today being one of the 108 Cooperatives that make up the system in the country. We ended 2021 with more than 146 thousand members distributed across 51 branches in the states of Mato Grosso and Para. With the 10 openings of the year, our Cooperative now has an agency in all the cities in the area of ​​operation in Mato Grosso, maintaining the great expansion process to also cover all the cities in which it operates in Pará. Credit operations grew 63% in relation to the previous year, allowing more people could get their plans off the ground, invest in their businesses or even guarantee the agricultural harvest. Much more than the financial impacts generated, we know that each financial solution contracted by members generated a positive impact for them and their region. And it is this certainty that makes credit unions grow and reach more people in all countries. Our cooperative in numbers onﬂ 000 E‘ % Di? And Result 171.6 million More than 146 thousand members 51 agencies in 43 municipalities. More than 750 employees More than 300 financial solutions RS 623 million in net assets RS 3.5 billion in total FECUFS RS 3.1 billion in credit operations Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Legend . Area of ​​activity without agency. Area of ​​activity with agency Map Z021 Agencies Mato Grosso Arenépolis Barao de Melgago Barra do Bugres Caceres Campo Novo do Parecis Campos de Julio Curvelandia Denise Gloria D'Oeste Mirassol D’Oeste Nortelandia Nossa Senhora do Livramento Nova Mariléndia Nova Olimpia Poconé Porto Esperidiéo Porto Estrela Santo Afonso Santo Antonio do Leveger Sapezal Tangaré da Serra Vérzea Grande Para' Abel Figueiredo Bom Jesus do Tocantins Canaé dos Carajés Dom Eliseu Itupiranga Marabé Ouriléndia do Norte paragommas Cities scheduled to open of agency in 2022 Parauapfbas Conceigao do Araguaia Concordia do Para' Redemao Barcarena Curionopolis Rio Maria Moju Floresta do Araguaia R°”d°” d° Paré Breu Branco |garapé—Miri Santa” do Araguaia Abaetetuba lpixuna do Para Tailéndia Acaré Jacundé T°mé"i9“ Agua Azul do Norte Mae do Rio Tucunja Nova Ipixuna S50 Domingos do Araguaia U4“a”°p°“5 Mocajuba S50 Domingos do Capim Cooperative act strongly in its defense process. "§35 of class and entities and accreditors of In 2021, we opened 10 new agencies, 4 of which are C00PeF3tiVi5m0, Chegam05 ne5tE5 mUniCiPi05 Para in the state of Mato Grosso and 6 in the state of Paré. f3Z9" 3 dif“-"'9”93 JUNO Com 3 P°P'J|3§5°« The more than 432 thousand inhabitants of these municipalities welcomed Nzio only Sicredi, but they embraced the Agéncia de Bom Jesus do Tocantins - PA Agéncia de Nossa Senhora do Livramento - MT Opened on July 12th. Opened on October 4th. Santo Antonio do Leverger Branch ~ MT Goianésia do Paré Branch - PA Opened on October 5th. Opened on October 11th. Hetardrro Anua1ZDZ1 Southeast MT/PA Agency in Thailand - PA Agency in Itupiranga - PA Opened on October 13th. Opened on October 14th. September 7th Agency in Céceres - MT Branch in S50 Félix do Xingu - PA Opened on December 10th‘ Opened on December 15th. Agency in Eldorado do Carajés - PA Agency in Baréo de Melgago - MT Opened on December 16th‘ Opened on December 20th. Retatdrm Annual Z021 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Mobile Agencies With the aim of bringing cooperativism to more people and guaranteeing close and active service, the Cooperative reached out to members and the community with information, products and services through the Agency Mobile, a van model vehicle, equipped and customized to serve the community. With the 5 Mobile Branches that the Cooperative has and a digital service platform, more than 150 communities and thousands of people were able to receive assistance without having to travel to a branch. Thailand - PA Goianésia do Para - PA Snlugﬁei ‘nnncelrﬂi pufﬂ tndas Sapezal — MT Vérzea Grande — MT Annual ReporterZD21 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Awards and recognitions Somoscoop Excellence in Management Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA won recognition for its management and governance for the second consecutive time. The Somoscoop Excellence in Management Award is held every two years by OCB — Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives in partnership with FNQ — National Quality Foundation. Cooperatives are recognized for good management practices and excellence divided into three categories: gold, silver and bronze. Each fraud also has three levels of maturity: first steps towards excellence; commitment to excellence; and towards excellence. In 2021 we won the Silver trophy, in the Commitment to Excellence category. Val???‘ Sicredi is among the 200 largest companies in Brazil. In the 209th edition of the Valor Grandes Grupos yearbook, with 68% placing in the general ranking and standing out in three categories in finance. GPTW Certification In 2021, Sicredi was certified by GPTW (Great Place to Work), a global people management consultancy. This is the recognition that we are an excellent place to work, and this achievement shows that we continue to fulfill our purpose: building a more prosperous society together. We are made of people for people and it is our mission to contribute to the well-being of everyone. ® Sicredi is recognized in four national awards The cooperative financial institution obtained prominent positions in the rankings of Exame Melhores & Maiores 2021 (Revista Exame), Valor 1000 (Valor Economico), Epoca Negécios 3609 (Revista Epoca Negécios) and Finangas Mais (O Estado de S.Paulo). 4'. I. ‘nor BANCO GNTRAL DD BRASIL Sicredi is in the Top 5 annual economic projects of the Central Bank for the fifth consecutive year. The result reflects the institution's high forecasting capacity and market analysis, present in the IPCA and Exchange Rate categories, via Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and Sicredi Asset, respectively. Annual Report Z021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA I I Sustainability Relationship and Solutions Cooperativism Responsible Strengthen our management model in a sustainable way The sustainability strategy helps us comply with Macrothemes of Generating value and sustainable positive impact for associates, the community and the region Sustainability our mission, vision and values, providing strategic guidelines that contribute and guide in practice the sustainable development of “'°55°” and8éCi°~ Promoting positive transformations in the teVe'- localities where we are present is fundamental for Sicredi Mas will also offer credit to those in need who are members. Money is 0 halal llquldteza captured through three ?> U Sela' par and The Virtuous Cycle Our way of generating value for the communities where we operate is through a cycle Local Development product families: savings, term deposit and investment funds. T A0 adheres to the Global Compact to Operate Sustainably 0NU, we also commit to adopting the Development Goals. Sustainable development (SDG) as guides for our sustainable development – ​​money raised needs to stay in the financial institution. «As a consequence, it returns to Sicredi through fundraising, generating a virtuous cycle. 4.— Q This credit, when it reaches society, generates income, consumption and production. 4: ¢ $0 0 surplus money can be used to offer credit to members. Report /-\riual2021 Sicredi Sudaeste MT/ PA Our Govenanga model Systemic organization Us We organize it into a System, seeking to specialize areas, reducing operational costs and enabling economies of scale and inter-cooperation, expanding the possibilities of meeting the demands of members. Each entity has specific roles, providing efficiency gains to our strategy, 2. decision making and the development of internal processes. All these entities together form Sicredi. Here the associate has an active participation in the management of the business. The assemblies held in cooperatives are our highest governance body, where we elect our representatives and decide the direction of our management. SicrediPar's Board of Directors represents the centrals and cooperatives and, therefore, their members, being the body responsible for coordinating the System's strategic decisions. Organization Associates Branch Coordinators @ 141 Coordinator,-s(as) G) 146 thousand members distributed in Effective, elected in 141 branches Assembly International partners Rabobank We have a long-term strategic relationship with Rabo Development B.V. — the development arm of the Dutch Rabobank group. Among the initiatives is the Technical Assistance Program, which aims to exchange skills, knowledge and best practices between the two institutions. IFC We have had a partnership with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) since 2011, which allowed us to enable three operations: equity, subordinated debt and access to Global Trade Finance Program. Through the Global Trade Finance Program, we have access to diversified financing sources from more than 230 international and regional banks to facilitate foreign exchange operations for small and medium-sized companies associated with cooperatives. Cooperative Board of Directors G) % Cooperative Supervisory Board Sudoeste MT/ PA Belonging Program The feeling of belonging is extremely important for any environment, especially in a cooperative. And our associates make cooperation happen through democratic participation: we are together, we grow together. At Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA, 550 members are organized into groups where their representatives are elected, called Center Coordinators. Only 50 are the ones who represent the members and take the nL'Jc|eo's vote to the General Assembly. In the Cooperative 550 141 nL'1c|eos. According to the Belonging Regulation, 550 duties of the NL'Jc|eo Coordinator: I — when invited by the Board of Directors, participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the cooperative's social projects; ll — participate in the nucleus coordinators' meetings, nL'1c|eo meetings and nucleus assembly; Ill - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative; IV — participate, when invited by the President or Administration Advisor, for events of interest to the cooperative; and V — participate in coordinator training in the cooperative, disseminating cooperativism. \‘I, program belonging to Assembly @ 202w In Z021, due to the Covid pandemic, the Assembly took place in hybrid mode, with live transmission via the Sicredi digital platform and the possibility of consultation and voting at the agency in the following days. This format allowed the Assemblies to be held while preserving the satllde of everyone, associates and collaborators. All members who registered on the assembly platform received a kit containing items to use for their online participation. 8.5 thousand members participated in the Assembly in 2021 Team that participated in the organization and presentation of the 2021 Assembly. Annual MeetingZD21 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Experience in the throes of cooperativism The Core Coordinators of Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA, together with directors of cooperative divided into three groups, they had a great experience in the south of the country. The trip to visit the Sicredi Administrative Center — CAS, the Cooperativa Sicredi Pioneira, the first credit cooperative in the country and meet Class 3 visiting Sicredi Pioneira in Nova Petropolis. The story of Father Theodor Amstad, who was the precursor of cooperativism in Brazil, aimed to inspire everyone so that they can spread cooperativism in our region. The participants they experienced the stories of cooperativism and visited the monuments that symbolize cooperativism in the country. Class 2 visiting the cooperative route Class 2 visiting the CA5 (Sicredi Administrative Center) Report /-\nual2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA To strengthen the relationship with the NL'Jc|eo Coordinators in order to increase participation and feeling of belonging, the Cooperative started the Cooperative Chat in 2021. Four online meetings were held with internal and external facilitators who brought up issues of interest to the membership, such as accountability, actions taken, governance structure and Sicredi policies. With a focus on maintaining a close and consultative relationship with its more than 5.5 million members, Sicredi has been increasingly better evaluated in the NPS (Net Promoter Score) indicator, which provides evaluations on different areas of service. The satisfaction survey on the Relational NPS, based on the opinion of own members, shows that the cooperative financial institution ended 2021 with an approval rate of 75.71% at Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA, an increase of two percentage points compared to the result of 2020. The survey is carried out monthly via telephone contact of a research center. The cooperative also carries out research with its members within the branches through the suggestion box and electronic form, available at sicredi.com.br[sudoeste-mt-pa. To the Answers and suggestions contribute to making a better cooperative every day. 75.71% recommend the Sicredi brand Report /-\nual2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA Gas Emission Neutralization The Cooperative received the Gas Emission Neutralization Certificate from Biofilrca, which certifies the neutralization of 765.99 tons of CO2 equivalent per through carbon credits certified by the Veriﬁed Carbon Standard seal, for neutralization of declared and captured emissions in Sicredi's Greenhouse Gas Inventory in 2019. Sustainability Committee The sustainability strategy helps us fulfill our mission, vision and values, providing strategic guidelines that contribute and guide in practice the sustainable development of our business . The drrechronators are: Re|action and Cooperation1'vrsmo;Responsible So|u;6es and Local Development. To support and implement Sicredi's sustainability strategy locally, Cooperatives have Sustainability Committees. At Sicredr Sudoeste MT/PA, the Sustainability Committee was created in 2021 and is responsible for monitoring the cooperative's indicators, evaluating, debating and recommending sustainability initiatives within its scope of action. It is also among the Committee's duties to monitor the development and expansion of initiatives such as the programs A umao Faz a Vida, Crescer, Pertencer, Cooperagéo na Ponta do Lépis, among others that guarantee the dissemination of cooperativism to the community. It is a way to reduce the degenerative effects on the mere environment and contribute to the fight against climate change, while at the same time supporting a forest conservation project that promotes socioeconomic and environmentally sustainable development in that charity. Responsible Credit Credit cooperatives have a different way of dealing with granting credit. As its mission is to ensure that all associates carry out their dreams, the first step is to help align the need with the best options and financing conditions. We believe that this is how, with Credit given responsibly, we will all grow together. In addition to evaluating the profile of members, the granting of Credit evaluates socio-environmental criteria, avoiding negative impacts on the community and promoting sustainable growth. Products such as solar financing and sustainable consortium also bring this concern with the environment. The Responsible Credit self-regulation program instituted by FEBRABAN aims to contribute to improving the quality of consumer relations in financial operations. Annual Report ZD21 Sicredi Sudneste MT/ PA Crescer Program A cooperative education front open to everyone: members, non-members, counselors, index coordinators and collaborators. We provide the opportunity for people to learn more about how we work. Understand to Grow. Those who participate in the Crescer Program can understand who we are and what motivates us to do what we do, why we exist and our differences. To inform is to cooperate. In 2021, more than 16 thousand members participated in the Program in face-to-face meetings and live sessions. The Cooperative also provides its members with a digital format, with gamified content, for those who opt for the 100% digital and interactive format. To access the piataforma, the member simply needs to speak to your manager. 16 million members formed by the Crescer Crescer Program held in Born Jesus do Tocantins - PA ' Annual Report Z021 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Training Programs Pragrama Start To provide close and quality service to members, the Cooperative adopts skills so that they can be enhanced in the professional development of employees. In 2021, the skills adopted were: understanding to serve, cooperative essence, doing things together and developing people. To develop these skills and also to train its employees, Sicredi has its own education platform that offers more than 4,369 online courses on cooperative business, products and services, security, market trends, personal development and many other topics that remain to be available to all employees. In addition to this platform, the Cooperative invests in the training of employees by carrying out specific training, such as Credit Journeys, Media Training, Feedback, Safety and Prevention, Brigade, Leadership, Consultative Sales, Emotional Intelligence, among others. In-person training — Administrative Headquarters To attract young people, the Cooperative develops the Start Internship Program, where students from undergraduate administration courses, accounting sciences and agronomy experience a different internship process, moving through different areas of the Cooperative to learn and improve their knowledge before starting to perform the tasks. In addition to training professionals, the program aims to promote interaction and local development. In this way, the Cooperative reinforces its commitment to the community, opening doors and providing opportunities for people to grow. Today 59 young people are part of the program. Training on—|ine Reiatério /-inuai Z021 Sicredi Sudaeste MT/PA Financial Solugﬁes For you For your 5%, For your agribusiness company - Credit and debit card. Credit - Credit for funding, . check e5pe:ia[ . Cartﬁeg investment and commercialization. Personal credit. Seconds for different cultures. incentive to credit of Vgfcuiog, . family farming and livestock payments advances. Receipts (Pronaf), medium producers (Pronamp) - Savings and others - Investments and large rural producers im/estimentos . Pensions - Credit for investment with - Vehicle insurance, transfer from BNDES life and residential - Savings and other solutions - Car consércio, investment according to its services. residential investment profile - Pensions - Insurance for your plantation. machinery and equipment - Machinery and property consércio Open Finance 0 Open Finance is the open financial system that brings more transparency and autonomy to your life financial. And the evolution of Open Banking. You can share your data through financial institutions' digital channels to receive offers for products and services such as credit cards, loans and investments. You decide: what will be the data, the objective, the institutions and the period. All of this in a practical and safe way. The entire process is regulated by the Central Bank and you will be protected by the General Personal Data Protection Law (LGPD). I already realized that this subject pays off. Follow us and stay up to date. Report /-\nual2021 Sicredi Sudneste MT/ PA Local Development Sicredi in the Community To further increase our positive impact, we develop and support a series of programs, projects and social investment actions that take local needs into account and are aligned to the principles and values ​​of cooperativism. We seek unity and the common good in all our actions. This is part of our purpose. Therefore, when Instead of raising a few flags, we embrace causes that are as inclusive as our mission of contributing to improving the quality of life of people in the Community. Our Causes Cooperation Everything that comes from Sicredi starts from a common starting point: doing it together. We believe that the strength of the collective makes the world a better place. That's why cooperation is fundamental when it comes to supporting causes. Examples of projects that focus on teamwork, which promotes cooperation/collaboration between people, such as collective sporting activities, social hackathon, social mobilization and integration, among others. Education Education transforms, broadens horizons and builds a fairer society. When we support education, we drive transformations and generate a positive impact, not only for a person, but also for the society in which they live. Example: projects that promote local education such as financial education, fairs, events, congresses, lectures, workshops, research, scholarship awards, among others. Local Development We understand that supporting a local initiative can generate a great impact, as long as this initiative responds to the real needs of the people involved in that region. Example: projects that promote social inclusion, strengthening and diversification of the local economy, environmental protection and the rational use of natural resources, entrepreneurship and social mobilization. sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade Hetardrro Anua1ZOZ1 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Local Development Cooperation in Ponta do Lcipis At Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA we have the responsibility to support our associates and the community in managing their personal finances and in the conscious use of our products and services. That's why we have initiatives aimed at financial education. We hold lectures and live streams throughout the year to disseminate financial knowledge to members. These Events take place within the financial education program Cooperação na Ponta do Lapis and aim to bring financial education to the regions in which the cooperative financial institution operates, directly supporting members and local communities, with actions planned for young people, children and adults. Through its own methodology, the initiative provides support to guide the implementation of financial education activities throughout Sicredi's area of ​​activity. Financial Education held in Tangara' da Serra — MT ‘ cooperagdo 5; in pgnya U do laprs 21 thousand people trained in the Cooperagéo Program at the tip of the pencil Financial Education held in Parauapebas - PA Financial Education held in Sapezal - MT Reiatdrio AnuaiZD21 Sicredi Sudneste MT/ PA The Union Makes Life Program The Union Makes Life Program is Sicredi's main education program and aims to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. The education The cooperative acts to educate young people so that they learn, in the school environment, to develop projects and initiatives capable of transforming society and meeting the desires and desires of communities. In this sense, cooperation only exists through coordinated actions between groups of people who have a common objective. The Uniﬁo faz a Vida Program has been developed for 26 years throughout the country and for more than 10 years here at Cooperativa Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA, where 10 municipalities develop 0 program in 35 schools, reaching more than l4 million| students. Through its teaching methodology, the program strengthens cooperation and citizenship within schools and takes place in partnership with city halls and the community. helps children and teenagers impacted in 2021. Cities that develop the A Uniéo Faz A Vida Program - Campo Novo do Parecis - Campos deJ1]|io - Nortelandia - Nova Mariléndia - Nova Olimpia - Paragominas - Porto Estrela - Sapezal - Tangaré da Serra - Vérzea Grande Delivery of certificates in Nova Mariléndia - MT Campo Novo do Parecis - MT Annual ReportZD21 Sicredi Sudneste MT/ PA Social Fund 05 members of Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA approved in the 2021 Assembly the creation of the Social Fund, which aims to strengthen actions developed by entities that are associated with the cooperative, highlighting the causes of Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship: Cooperation, Education and Local Development. Project registrations made in accordance with the published notice. In ZOZ1, 29 projects benefited, directly serving more than 26 thousand people in the cities of Barra do Bugres, Caceres, Campo Novo do Parecis, Maraba', Nova Olimpia, Paragominas, Redengao, Rio Maria, Rondon do Para, Santana do Araguaia, Santo Afonso , Sapezal, Tangara da Serra, Tomé—A;u and Varzea Grande. To participate in the notice, entities must be legally constituted and present a copy of their constituent acts — statute or social contract and proof of registration with CNPJ. In addition, they must be associated with Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA and have regular movement with the cooperative. It is important to highlight that only private, non-profit entities will be able to request resources from this Fund. N50 can benefit from the Social Fund for projects developed by public or private schools, or entities linked to pClb|lCOS agencies. ~; fund V social Project Benefited in Tangaré da Serra - MT Projects Benefited in Tomé—A;u - PA Reiatério /-\nuai2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA 0 Day of Cooperation was a great milestone for Cooperativa Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA in 2021, which collected and delivered more than 100 tons of food. C Day is a movement organized nationally by the Brazilian Cooperative Organization (OCB), which mobilizes the segment with the objective of developing social responsibility actions, and this year, minimizing the impacts caused by the pandemic through food collections. Agency Rondon do Para' — PA I Dia"f% d e Cooperar Agéncia Cidade Jardim | Parauapebas — PA Reiatdrio AnuaiZD21 Southeast MT/PA The Paideia Project was born at the Cooperative in 2016, where employees realized that they could contribute to transforming the lives of children and adolescents. The name Paideia comes from Iatin and means Education for Life, which conveys the essence of the project well. During the year, volunteer collaborators gave lectures on Career, Cooperativism, DGUS in Tangaré 513 Sen’?! ' MT Financial Education, Personal and Digital Marketing for children and teenagers in Tangaré da Serra. Paideia held at the Evangelical Church Assembly of God in Tangaré da Serra - MT MT/ PA In 2021, more than 700 native seedlings were planted in Tangaré da Serra in partnership with the City Hall Municipal and Terzi Companies. The reforested area is located on the banks of Cérrego Mutum and covers 11 thousand square meters. Collaborators from the 3 institutions volunteered to plant seedlings of 18 typical species of forest, cerrado and both biomes. The program has actions developed for over 5 years at the Cooperative and has the objective of recovering spring areas and promoting environmental balance and the use of natural resources. 700 native tree seedlings Helardrio AnnualZOZ1 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Natal de Luz Sicredi Natal de Luz Sicredi is a project that aims to strengthen the feelings of fraternity, unity and cooperation that surround Christmas, being a reference for decoration and encouragement for other institutions. The project includes decorating the Cooperative's Administrative Headquarters building with Christmas lights and elements and also involves community participation in the construction of the decoration and in the big lights-on event. The project had its first construction in 2013, with the decoration of the building and a lights inauguration event, which included the arrival of Santa Claus and artistic presentations from the community itself. In the following years, we strengthened the project, including the direct participation of the community and children served by our social responsibility programs. In its 99th edition in 2021, the lights came on from the sound of Coral Villa Lobos, still with a reduced audience due to the restrictions of the pandemic, but without fail to enchant everyone present and those who visited the decoration in the following weeks. wﬁ/'Nata.l" '4 deLuz 5* Sicredi ' «M '. '. : Sicredi Helafdno /—'mum'ZOZ1 Value the relationship and offer financial solutions that add income and contribute to improving The quality of life of the associate is in our mission. That's why employees make everyday life an opportunity to transform this service into a relationship, by promoting technical and meetings. In this way, we maintain our differentiation as a cooperative financial institution committed to the development of all. Southeast MT/PA Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Southwest MT/PA I Growth Members 146 thousand 101 thousand 81 Evolution of: 0 44.5 A in relation to 2020 2019 2020 2021 Agencies 51Ag 41Ag Evolution of: 0 24.3%» in relation the a 2020 2019 2020 2021 Total Resources 3.5 billion 2.7 billion 1:7 Evolution of: 29.6% in relation to 2020 2019 2020 2021 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA Net Equity 623 million 465 million ~ Evolution of: 0 3 3.9 A. in relation to 2020 2019 2020 2021 Credit Operations 3.1 billion 1'9 Evo|u;§o of: 53.1% in re|aL; is from reals previous Cash and cash equivalents 1,139,705,649 Credit Operations Z.500,987,177 Other Assets 253,005,560 Permanent 133,748,924 Total Assets 4,027,447,310 Liabilities T 4 2% in relation to the year Billions of reais previous Deposit a': view 865,754,570 Deposit is term 1,386,968,593 Obligations for loans and transfers and other obligations Patrimé not liquid 623391,860 Total Liabilities 4,027,447,310 1,150,732,287 Annual Report Z021 Sicredi Sudaeste MT/PA Income Statement Financial and Credit Income 393,312,045 Revenue from Products and Services 131,625,526 1 7 1 6 Resource Raising Expenses - 88,388,030 1,280 I o Absorption of the Expansion Fund 4,051,025 in fe|395°_ the previous year Total 171,672,305 Destinations of Result 171.6 Interest to the FATES Fund Reserve '_'°5“'t_af'° 5' capital Reseryq ( 5%) Statute d|SP05|930 0'3 Rec Loss (45%) A55emb|eia 7.9 12.3 7.6 68.2 75.6 million reais million reais million reais million reais million reais Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA ValueAgregada million reais Rates Generated F'-'"d° 5°°'3' Annual Report Z021 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Opinions Opinion of the Fiscal Council OPINION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL Tangaré da Serra / Mato Grosso, March 8, 2022. As members of the Fiscal Council of Sudoeste MT/PA Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative ~ Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA and in the exercise of legal and statutory duties, we examine the Administration Report and the Financial Statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses, Statement of Changes of Net Equity, Cash Flow Statement, Explanatory Notes and other statements, and the respective audit report on the financial statements, documents these relate to the year ending December 31, 2021. Due to the Governance policies adopted by the Cooperative and based on our examinations and the independent auditors' audit report, issued by Ernst & Voung Auditores Independentes S.S., we have a favorable opinion on the approval of the mentioned demonstrations. Sincerely, Annual Report Z021 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Audit Report lguaterm BUSIHQSS Avenlcla Nllo Pecanha, 2 900 9“ floor ~Chacara das Pedras 91 330-00% Porto Alegre » RS - Brasll Te! .55 5132045500 Building a better vycom Dr workunq world Independent auditor's report on the financial statements To the Administrators and Associates of the Southwest Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative MTIPA - Sicredi Sudoeste MTIPA Tangara da Serra/ MT Opiniao We examined the financial statements of the Cooperative of Credit. Sudoeste MT/PA savings and investment - Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA (“Cooperative”), which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2021 and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, comprehensive income, changes in net assets and cash flows for the year ending on that date. as well as the corresponding explanatory notes. including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion. the financial statements referred to above present adequately. in all relevant respects. the asset and financial position of the Cooperative credit. Savings and investment of Sudoeste MT/PA - Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA on December 31, 2021, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ending on that date. in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities. in compliance with such nonnas. are described in the following section. entitled “Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of financial statements". We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council. and we comply with the others ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to substantiate our opinion. Reiatdrm Annual Z021 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Emphasis - Restatement of corresponding values ​​We draw your attention to explanatory note no. 2. the financial statements. which describes the restatements made on the amounts corresponding to the year ending December 31, 2020, related to reclassifications of: (i) balances of investments in investment funds to cash and cash equivalents. depending on your immediate convertibility, (ii) of the balances of inflows from intercooperative deposits to financial intermediation income, due to the nature of the operations, and (iii) of the balances of non-operational results for the groups of other inflows and operating revenues and other expenditures and expenses operational, due to the nature of the operations. In this context, the corresponding values ​​for the year ended December 31, 2020, presented for comparison purposes. were adjusted and are being restated as provided for in NBC TG 23. cu CPC 23 - Accounting Policies. Estimate Changes and Error Rectification. Our opinion does not contain any reservations related to this matter. Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report The Cooperative's board of directors is responsible for this other information that comprises the management report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Financial Statements administration and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on this report. In connection with the audit of financial statements. our responsibility is to read the management report and. when doing so. consider whether this rectory is. in a material manner inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise. appears to be distorted in a relevant way. If. based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is material misstatement in the Management Report we are required to communicate this fact. N50 we have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the board and governance for financial statements The board is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and for the internal controls it has determined as necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. In the preparation of financial statements. The board is responsible for evaluating the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing it when applicable. matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of financial statements unless the board intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease operations, or have no realistic alternative to avoid closing operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements In connection with the audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the management report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially distorted. If, based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is a material distortion in the Management Report, we are required to communicate this fact. N50 we have nothing to report in this regard_ Annual Report Z021 Sicredi Sudneste MT/PA Responsibilities of the board and governance for financial statements The board is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and for the internal controls that it determined as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion. regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. When preparing demonstrations ﬁnancial. The board is responsible for evaluating the Cooperative's ability to continue operating. disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of financial statements unless the board intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations. or have no realistic alternative to avoid closing operations. Those responsible for the governance of the Cooperative 550 are those with responsibility for supervising the process of preparing financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for auditing the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial statements. taken together. are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. and issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit carried out. in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, it always detects any existing relevant distortions. Distortions may be due to fraud or error and are considered relevant when. individually or together. can influence. within a reasonable perspective. the economic decisions of users made based on the aforementioned financial statements. As part of the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international standards audit team, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. Furthermore: - we identify and assess the risks of relevant distortion in the financial statements. Regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, we plan and perform audit procedures in response to such concerns and obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than 0 arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of tampering with internal controls, collusion, falsification, omission or intentional misrepresentations - We obtain an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but, no, with the aim of expressing our opinion on the effectiveness of the Cooperative's internal controls. o We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board. o We conclude on the adequacy of the use, by the board, of the operational continuity accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is relevant uncertainty in relation to events or conditions that may raise significant doubt in relation to the company's operational continuity capacity. Cooperative. If we conclude that there is relevant incense, we must draw attention to our account not of audit the respective disclosures in the financial statements or include a change in our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer maintain operational continuity. Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/PA o We evaluated the general presentation, structure and content of the demonstrations financial statements, including disclosures and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding tiansagﬁes and events in a manner compatible with the objective of adequate presentation. We communicate with those responsible for governance regarding, among other aspects, the scope and timing of planned audit work and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work_ Porto Alegre, March 3, 2022 ERNST 8. YOUNG Auditores Independentes SS. CRC - 2SP015199/F-7 Aménco F. Ferreiro Neto Comador CRC-1SP192685/O-9 Reiatdrio Anuai 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA Internet Banking Make inquiries, transfers and payments in a few clicks. Direct Debit Register your accounts for automatic debit and save time. ATM Withdrawals, deposits and payments? It's quick at the ATM. Accredited Agent Avoid queues, save time and agility when paying your bills. Telephone services Capitals and metropolises - 3003 4770 Other regions 0 0800 724 4770 Sicredi Visa Cards - 0800 701 5525 Bank 24 hours S50 more than 23 thousand tellers in 680 municipalities in Brazil. Application Download 0 App — Your financial life in the palm of your hand. l_.‘'' ' ‘I Iii ‘ Available for Android and IOS. WhatsApp Sicredi offers yet another relationship channel for members. And 0 WhatsApp Enterprise, also called WhatsApp Corporate. A tool appears to provide more agility and efficiency in service, integrating Sicredi's digital transformation initiatives. By calling (51) 3358-4770, any member, whether an individual or a legal entity, can ask questions about our products and services. Annual Meeting 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA Ageincﬁas in Mom Girosso Sicredi in Norteléndia Av. Valentim Peron N9 244 — Centro. Sicredi in Arenépolis Av. Praga da lndependéncia, S/N9 — Centro. Sicredi in Nova Mariléndia Av. Gov. Blairo B. Maggi, S/N9 — Bairro Planalto. Sicredi in Nova Olimpia Av. Mato Grosso, N9 770W Centro Sicredi in Tangaré da Serra Agency I - Avenida Tancredo de Almeida Neves, N9 40—N, Centro. Agency ll - Rua Neftes de Carvalho, Corner with Dep. Hitler Sansﬁo, N9 465 S — Jardim Rio Preto. Agéncia Ill — Av. Brasil, 2033-5, Jardim Cidade Alta. Sicredi in Barra do Bugres Praga Eliazario A. Jony Souza, S/N9 — Center. Sicredi in Sapezal Rua Traira, N9 1300 - Centro. Sicredi in Campos de Jﬁlio Rua Valdir Mazutti, N9 827 — Center. Sicredi in Campo Novo do Parecis Av Brasil, N9 703, Bairro Patriménio de Campo Novo do Parecis. Sicredi in Céceres Agency I — Praga Baréo do Rio Branco N9 156 — Center. Agency ll — Av. 7 de Setembro, N9 319 - Centro. Sicredi in Mirassol D'Oeste Rua Antonio Martins da Costa N9 721 — Center. Sicredi in Porto Esperidiﬁo Rua Juscelino Kubistchek, S/N9 — Centro. Sicredi in Santo Afonso Rua 31 de Margo, S/N9 — Center. Sicredi in Gloria D'Oeste Rua Professor Maria Flores, N9 2037 — Center. Sicredi in Curveléndia Av. Rio Branco, N9 2914 — Centro Sicredi in Vézea Grande Agency I — Rua Ary Paes Barreto, N9 1399 — Bairro Cristo Rei. Agency II — Av. Couto Magalhﬁes, N9 970 — Bairro Centro Norte. Agéncia Ill - Shopping Vérzea Grande Rua Presidente Arthur Bernades, S/N9 — Jardim Aeroporto. Agency llll — Av. Couto Magalhées, N9 2659 — Bairro Centro Norte. Sicredi in Denise Av. Brasil corner of Rua Tapira, S/N9 — Centro. Sicredi in Poconé Praga Bem Rondon, N9 777 — Center. Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA Agémﬁas no Parﬁ Sicredi in Reden;-50 Av. Brasil, N9 2525 — Neighborhood NL'Jc|eo Urbano. Sicredi in Parauapebas Agency I — Rua E, N9 437 — Bairro Cidade Nova. Agency ll — Av dos lpés, S/N9 Cidade Jardim Residential Neighborhood. Sicredi in Marabé Agéncia I — Special Lot Folha 32, S/N9 — Bairro Nova Maraba. Agency ll — Av. 550 Francisco, N9 2233 — Bairro Cidade Nova. Sicredi in Tucum§ Av. Para, N9 630 — Center. Sicredi in Ouriléndia do Norte Av. das Nagﬁes, S/N9 — Center. Sicredi in Santana do Araguaia Av. Henrique Vitta, L1 Q30. Sicredi in Paragominas Av. Presidente Vargas, N9 160 — Bairro Angelim. Sicredi on Dom Eliseu Av, JK, N9 848 — Center. Sicredi in Rondon do Para’ Rua Primeiro de Maio, N9 88 - Centro. Sicredi in Tomé-Agu Av. Dionisio Bentes, S/N9 — Center. Sicredi in Abel Figueiredo Av. Nossa Senhora da Conceigao, S/N9 — Center. Sicredi in Ulianépolis Av. Presidente Vargas, N9 855 Center. Sicredi in Bom Jesus do Tocantins Av. Jarbas Passarinho, N9 585 — Center. Sicredi in ltupiranga Av. 14 de Julho, N9 59 — Centro. Sicredi in Thailand Av. Joao Pessoa, N9 40 — Centro. Sicredi in Goianésia do Paré Av. Tancredo Neves, S/N9 — Center. Sicredi in Eldorado do Carajés Rua Jacaranda, N9 64 - Centro. Service Telephone 4 ’ ’ s and Metropolitan Re ’”es (local location) 0800 7 0 Other regions Sicredi SAC: 0800 724 7220 Hearing or speech impaired 0800 724 0525 Ombudsman: 0800 646 2519 sicredi.com.br