It shows how we generate value through our products, services, internal processes and sustainable operations. Provides information that complements the previous chapters. Addresses our positive impact on society and the communities where we are present.Responsible solutions AnnexesLocal development03 0504OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT »Relationship with associates .............. ....... 66 »Products and services financial .......................... 71 »Green economy ..................... ................................. 79 PROMOTING FINANCIAL EDUCATION »Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis ...... ................... 84 »ENEF Week ........................... .............................. 86 ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT »Risk management ......... ............................................... 87 »Social, environmental risk and climate ................... 88 PROMOTING MANAGEMENT ECO-EFFICIENT »GHG emissions management .............................. 95 WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS WITH RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT »Engaging suppliers to sustainability ................................................ . 97 FOSTERING THE LOCAL ECONOMY » Fostering the local economy .............................. 100 PROMOTING FINANCIAL INCLUSION » Financial inclusion .. ............................................. 102 PROMOTE THE DEVELOPMENT OF PEOPLE »People development.................................. 104 »Employee satisfaction.................. ...... 109 CONTRIBUTING TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES »Social investment ................................................ ........... 111 »Employee diversity .......... 123 »GRI index .................... ............................... 128 »SDG Map .............. ............................... 1423 MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP ............... .. 4 ABOUT THE REPORT ............................... 8 WHO WE ARE »National presence ............. ..................... 14 »National expansion ......................... ........ 15 »Our differentiators ............................... 16 »Our business model . .................. 18 »Our solutions ............................ ......... 20 »Relationship with stakeholders ... 21 »Highlights 2021 .......................... ........ 22 »Awards and recognition ............... 24 GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY »Governance structure .................... 26 »Systemic strategy ................. ............. 33 »Sustainability strategy ......... 34 »Performance .................... .......................... 43 Presents our business, the highlights of the year, our governance and our sustainability strategy. Demonstrates how our cooperative business model brings positive impact.Introduces the content and objectives of the FORTALECER Report OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL »Participation of associates ....................................... ... 48 »Ethics and combating corruption ........................................ ..... 50 »Security ....................................... ..................................... 53 SPREADING COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITY »Training in cooperatives.. ................................. 55 »Sustainability training ............ ..................... 57 »Committee of Sustainability .............................................. 57 PROMOTING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY »Diversity in governance ....................................... ..... 59 »Employee diversity ....................................... 62 »Accessibility of channels .............................................. .... 63Sicredi Relationship and Cooperativism01 02 SummarySummary2 Sustainability Report 20214 Sustainability Report 2021 5 Introduction Message from leadership It is with a feeling of duty accomplished and a sense of continuity that we publish our 2021 Sicredi Sustainability Report. The year was marked by important developments in our governance model, while maintaining the institution's essential values, always bearing in mind the interests of members. Following the succession plan, in which the 2018-2020 executive mandates ended, the president of Central Sicredi South/Southeast Fernando Dall’Agnese was elected in the 2021 assemblies as the new President of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Confederação Sicredi, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, the Board of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores and the Board of Trustees of the Foundation. His predecessor, Manfred Alfonso Dasenbrock, President of Central Sicredi PR / SP / RJ, continues to be a member of SicrediPar's Board of Directors, as a representative of Central and its affiliated cooperatives. The new composition of the The Council is also responsible for the transition to the exclusive presidency model, adopted from March 2022, and which puts us towards the best sustainability practices in the market, in line with the new guidelines of the Central Bank. The movements are part of the strategy continuous evolution of Sicredi's corporate governance, internationally recognized as a model in credit cooperativism. Another important milestone in our governance was the selection of the first Independent female advisor at SicrediPar, increasing diversity in our decision-making bodies, which we consider fundamental for the evolution and development of our business and a more prosperous society. The process was conducted throughout the year and the election took place during the SicrediPar General Assembly, in 2022. From the point of view of the local operations of our cooperatives, the year was marked by the continuity of strategy, which prioritizes the generation of value for members — the business owners. In a context in which the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic were still present, cooperatives maintained proximity and support to our members, intensifying the use of different technologies and digital channels, such as assemblies and digital tools and service via Whatsapp. At the same time, we continue to expand our physical presence in the country, with 210 branches opened in all regions of Brazil. In this sense, we continued to the national expansion plan, marked by our arrival in Espírito Santo and Amapá, and we expanded our service capacity in the state of Minas Gerais. The close relationship was essential for us to continue cooperating with communities, offering financial solutions to micro and small businesses, small rural producers, self-employed professionals and other associates, helping to recover the local economy. Aiming to maintain support for small entrepreneurs in this In this context, we carry out credit operations under the National Support Program for Micro and Small Businesses (Pronampe) on a permanent basis. Through this credit, we support 28,077 micro and small companies, at a time of economic recovery. In 2021, we also reinforced our position as the first private financial institution that grants the most credit to agribusiness in Brazil, making more than R$38.2 billion available to producers for the 2021/2022 Harvest Plan. We did all this without forgetting to look at the socio-environmental impact of our financial solutions. With this, we structured a Sustainable Finance area, dedicated to raising resources linked to generating value for society and the environment. In this sense, we raised funds with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), to meet the growing demand for credit for the installation of solar energy systems. The credit line of around R$600 million was the first operation of a Brazilian cooperative financial institution to receive certification issued by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), an organization that works to promote investments in the low-carbon economy. Fernando Dall’Agnese Chairman of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar GRI 102-146 Sustainability Report 2021 7 Introduction We also carried out fundraising aimed at financing micro, small and medium-sized Brazilian companies led by women, which generated a credit line of R$438 million. The agreement was signed with DEG, a German financial development institution, a subsidiary of the German Development Bank (KFW), and the French development agency PROPARCO, a subsidiary of the French Development Bank (AFD). The operation included, for the first time in our business, the gender factor as one of the criteria, in addition to considering other social and environmental aspects. Furthermore, we took another important step by launching the first portfolio of ESG investment funds, which seeks to generate value by investing members' money in companies with proven positive social, environmental and governance impact. Still focusing on sustainability, the year was marked by the structuring of our tool for measuring our positive impact: the Sustainable Development Framework. Through it, we can measure our performance and increasingly evolve on the sustainable development agenda. The tool will be an important support for our sustainability governance model, which provides for Sustainability Committees at all levels of Sicredi: national, regional and local. We currently have committees in approximately 50% of our cooperatives. João Francisco Sanchez Tavares Executive President of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Fernando Dall’Agnese President of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar Manfred Alfonso Dasenbrock President of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ João Francisco Sanchez Tavares Executive President of Banco Cooperativo SicrediFrom a macroeconomic point of view, the year 2021 was marked by great challenges and opportunities, with some sectors of the economy recovering quickly from the effects of the pandemic and others still impacted by the shutdown of activities. Given this scenario, we had a 37% growth in our credit portfolio, based on responsible action and proximity to the associate, in line with our principles. At the same time, cooperatives continued to use our non-financial solutions to expand their impact on communities, working with various social programs. A highlight is our financial education program, Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis, which expanded its actions during the year, such as the ENEF 2021 Week, increasingly positioning us as an institution concerned with the financial health of our members. All these initiatives reinforce our commitment to the Global Compact and the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals, demonstrating, in practice, how our business generates sustainable development. We signed this letter with six hands to reinforce that we will remain united, taking our products and services to the most distant communities, in order to build, increasingly together, a more prosperous society. Manfred Alfonso Dasenbrock President of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ 8 Sustainability Report 2021 9 Introduction We present Sicredi's 2021 Sustainability Report. In this document, we present the main highlights of our business throughout the year, including the ESG (environmental, social and governance) aspects and the financial support of the business. Throughout its pages, you will learn how our financial and non-financial services generate value for associates, employees and the communities where they are located. We are present, supporting the sustainable development of society. The information reported includes all individual and central cooperatives and companies headquartered in the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). In preparing this document, we followed the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a voluntary standard adopted by companies from the most diverse sectors and countries for sustainability reporting. Our sustainability drivers and focal themes, considered those that most impact the sustainability of our cooperatives served as the basis for establishing the scope of the report, including the indicators reported. We are participants in the Global Compact, an initiative of the United Nations (UN) and, with this, we report how we comply with the 10 Universal Principles of the Global Compact and how we contribute to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).This document was approved by the Board of Directors of Sicredi Participações S.A. (SicrediPar), disclosed at a SicrediPar meeting and subjected to an external verification process conducted by an independent auditor. GRI 102-32 About the report You can read this report in a linear fashion. However, you can also navigate the publication in alternative ways, in line with our sustainability strategy and international reporting guidelines. Below we demonstrate how we adopted each of these approaches and We point to the page where more details can be found. Sustainability drivers and focal themes (page 37) The chapters in this publication were organized according to our sustainability drivers. At the opening of each chapter, we present which focal themes will be covered throughout its pages. Sustainability pillars (page 35) Our initiatives are classified according to the Social, Environmental, Economic and Governance pillars. At the opening of each chapter, we describe which pillar the described initiatives are included in. GRI (page 128) We rely on GRI standards to report our sustainability performance. These contents are identified at the end of each paragraph using the acronym GRI. On page 128, we publish a GRI Content Summary that explains the content and the page on which it is reported. Global Compact Principles (page 40) We are participants in the United Nations Global Compact (UN), and this document also seeks to report our progress towards the 10 Universal Principles of the Global Compact. Check on page 128 the correlation of the Global Compact Principles with the GRI content. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (page 40) As signatories to the Global Compact, we also report our contribution to the SDGs. Therefore, at the opening of each chapter we point out the objectives impacted by the reported sustainability driver and, on page 37, we present the correlation between our focal themes and the SDGs. On page 142, we publish an SDG Map, which shows the relationship between each SDG and our initiatives, with the page where they were published. Sicredi indicators (page 128) We report our own sustainability indicators, selected based on our focal themes. These contents are identified at the end of each paragraph using the acronym SICREDI. In the GRI Content Summary, we explain the content and indicate the page where it is reported. How to read this report Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS), in Porto Alegre/RSO Sicredi01Chapter13 Sicredi 12 Sustainability Report 2021 Who we are More than 5.5 million members Net income of 4.8 billion More than 2.2 thousand service points 108 cooperatives 5 centers More than 30 thousand employees in 1,600 municipalities More than 300 financial solutions R$ 197.6 billion in assets R$ 24.9 billion in net worth R$ 129.5 billion in total deposits R$ 133 billion balance in credit portfolioOur System in numbers We are Sicredi (Cooperative Credit System), the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. Since 1902, we have worked to support the growth of our members and bring sustainable development to the communities where we are present and in 230 Brazilian municipalities we are the only financial institution physically present. GRI 102-1 We operate in all regions of the country. We generate value for these locations by raising funds from members and lending to members in the same regions. The permanence of these resources in place creates a virtuous cycle that stimulates income generation and a cycle of sustainable growth, with a greater supply of jobs, local products and economic development. GRI 102-2 We have a systemic operating model, in which each of our more than 100 cooperatives has the autonomy to operate locally, but has the support of the Center Sicredi Administrative in technology, security and financial strength. Cooperatives are responsible for implementing national strategies taking into account local needs. GRI 102-2 Each cooperative is affiliated with one of our five regional centers, which are shareholders of SicrediPar, a holding company that coordinates, together with the cooperatives themselves, the System's strategic decisions. We also have, in our structure, specialized companies that offer credibility and reliability to members, such as Confederação Sicredi, Sicredi Fundo Garantidores, Fundação Sicredi, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and its controlled companies — the Asset Administrator, the Consortium Administrator and the Insurance Broker —, located in Porto Alegre (RS) , at the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). GRI 102-2 / 102-3National presence In 2021, we continued to expand our presence throughout the national territory, reaching more than 2,200 branches spread across 1,600 municipalities. We began operating in the states of Amapá and Espírito Santo, consolidating our operations in 25 states and the Federal District. GRI 102-4 MUNICIPALITIES WHERE WE ARE PRESENT NUMBER OF SERVICE POINTS 1,600 20211,378 20191,463 20202,202 20211,861 20191,990 2020+9% +11% Agency in Colatina/ES - Sicredi Essência RS/ESAgência in Macapá/AP - Sicredi Norte GRI 102-7Sicredi Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi Brasil CentralCentral Sicredi Central North Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ Central Sicredi North/Northeast2019 4,466,750 2020 4,901,724 2021 5,579,1612019 495,480 2020 602,628 2021 788,417 2019 2,053,694 2020 2,199. 438 2021 2,445,4852019 298,884 2020 342,296 2021 405,115 2019 1,456,175 2020 1,587. 634 2021 1,746,4582019 162,517 2020 169,728 2021 193,686 15 O Sicredi 14 Sustainability Report 2021 AMRR PA TO GODF MG ES RJSPMS PR SC RSBAPICE RN PB PE AL SEMAAP AC RO MTPRESENCE OF SICREDI IN BRAZIL NUMBER OF MEMBERS PER CENTER IN THE YEAR Legend States with Sicredi branches States with an ongoing expansion project We opened the first branch in the state of Amapá at the beginning of the year, located in the capital Macapá. In September, we arrived in the state of Espírito Santo , with the opening of two branches in the city of Colatina. GRI 102-6 / SICREDI DL09/ SICREDI DL10/ SICREDI DL11 / SICREDI DL12 We are the only financial institution physically present in 230 municipalities, where we serve more than 350 thousand members, promoting the financial inclusion of 992 thousand inhabitants. 70.5% of our agencies are in cities classified as Underserved, Rural, Rising Country and Prosperous Country. 86% of our members are in cities with up to 100 thousand inhabitants. We are present in 7% of the 1,649 Brazilian municipalities in need. Of the municipalities in which we are exclusive, 94% have less than 10 thousand inhabitants.16 Sustainability Report 2021 17 Our differentials PURPOSE To build a more prosperous society together. MISSION As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. VALUES • Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for standards officers and inmates; • Efficiency and transparency in management.GRI 102-16 VISION To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective System. INSPIRATIONAL 2030 Indicates the aspiration to make Sicredi a leading institution in local and sustainable development. PRINCIPLES OF COOPERATIVISM • Membership voluntary and free; • Democratic management by members; • Economic participation of members; • Autonomy and independence; • Education, training and information; • Intercooperation; • Interest in the community.19 Sicredi 18 Sustainability Report 2021 COOPERATIVISM Our own cooperative business model is a differentiator that generates value for associates and the communities where we are present. Our business model Value generation model We have a differentiated business model, based on the principles of cooperativism. We value the role of associates as business owners, and we generate value by encouraging their participation in decisions, sharing the results and offering a series of financial instruments and solutions that support their prosperity, guarantee the security of their investments and that generate value and impact positive for society. GRI 102-2 Due to our business model, the money raised in a location is converted into credit granted to other members in the same location, creating a virtuous cycle that encourages investment in the cooperative, the inclusion of a greater number of people in the financial system and the strengthening of our members' businesses and sustainable development. In this way, we contribute to the sustainable development of local communities, boosting the economy and generating jobs. GRI 102-2 At Fundação Sicredi, we have a portfolio of non-financial solutions that aim to expand our positive impact on members and communities, implemented locally by Cooperatives. GRI 102-2 / 102-6 Business inputsBusiness model Generation of value VALUE FOR THE BUSINESS More than 300 financial solutions R$ 133 billion balance in credit portfolio Net result of R$ 4.8 billion VALUE FOR COMMUNITIES R$ 893 .3 million paid in taxes 230 municipalities where we are the only financial institution present 441,170 children and adolescents benefited from educational programs Around 19 million people impacted by ENEF Week R$158.8 million in social investment 905.8 thousand people impacted by C-Day actions R$6.1 billion paid to suppliersVALUE FOR MEMBERS 5 Centrals and 108 Cooperatives More than 2,200 branches R$ 97.9 billion granted in credit R$ 853 million distributed as a result Democratic process of participation and decision-making decision 33.87% general majority 12,908 core coordinators participating in assemblies and meetingsVALUE FOR OUR TEAM R$ 27.1 million invested in development and training of employees R$ 3.8 billion paid in salaries and benefits More than 1 million hours of training for employees 88% level of employee confidenceVALUE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT R$ 24.6 billion in green economy products R$ 3.3 billion in financing granted for the generation of clean energy Neutralization of 100% of GHG emissions calculated in the 2020 inventory Through Solar Energy Self-generation, we stopped emitting 580 tCO2eVALUE FOR OUR MANAGEMENT MODEL Globally recognized governance model Focus on the associate, the business owner 300 thousand members participating in the assembly 77,010 graduates of the Crescer Program Women Committee and Youth Committee support the diversity of governance bodies Selection of the first female Advisor to form SicrediPar's Board of DirectorsPURPOSE: Building a more prosperous society together SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYStrategy 2020-2023 • Inspirational 2030 NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS Initiatives and programs aimed at expanding our positive impact on associates and communities. FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS We have a broad portfolio of products, services and channels (physical and digital) to meet our associates. BUSINESS INVESTMENTS »133 billion in the credit portfolio »197.6 billion in assets PRESENCE IN COMMUNITIES »Presence in 1,600 municipalities »Physical presence in 1,379 thousand cities with less than 100 thousand inhabitants MEMBERS »More than 5.5 million members OUR TEAM »34,127 employees and 753 outsourced NATURAL RESOURCES »Energy and water consumed in the operation MANAGEMENT MODEL »Principles of cooperativismFinancial solutions Non-financial solutions 21 Sicredi 20 Sustainability Report 2021 For your company »Foreign exchange and foreign trade; »Business cards; "Digital certification; "Charge; »Consortia; » Current account; "Credit; »BNDES investment credit; »Custody of checks; »Bank domicile; »Financing; "Payroll; »Investments; »Card machine; "Corporate pension; »Pix (instant payments); »Insurance; »Sicredi Conecta¹ (Sicredi Marketplace); »Payment solutions and receipts.For your agribusiness »Exchange; »Credit and debit cards; »Consortia; » Current account; »BNDES investment credit; "Rural credit; »Financing; »Investments; "Payments and Receiving; »Pix (instant payments); "Savings; »Insurance; »Sicredi Conecta¹ (Sicredi Marketplace). The Foundation's role is to keep the essence of cooperativism alive in Sicredi's culture, through the development of the systemic sustainability strategy, and of educational, social, cultural, environmental and governance programs and initiatives to expand the positive impact of the institution. Its work is structured through several programs: »Pertencer Program; »Grow Program; »Youth Committee;Channels »Agencies; »Accredited agents; »Sicredi application; »Sicredi X application; »ATM (own network, 24-hour Banking and Withdraw and Pay); »Internet banking; »Telephone services; »WhatsApp.For you »Exchange; »Credit and debit cards; »Credit (personal, vehicle and real estate); »Consortia; » Current account; »Digital account (Woop Sicredi); »Automatic debit; »Investments; "Payments and Receiving; »Pix (instant payments); "Savings; »Pension; »Insurance; »Sicredi Conecta¹ (Sicredi Marketplace). ¹ Sicredi Conecta was discontinued in November 2021OUR SOLUTIONS Relationship with stakeholders We value transparency and ethics in our relationships with our stakeholders and we seek to engage them in order to establish an increasingly closer relationship. To define which audiences will be engaged, we carry out an analysis of our strategic, institutional and market relationships, taking into account their impact on the sustainability of the business. Find out below which groups were engaged in 2021: GRI 102-42 In addition to the interactions highlighted in the table, in 2021, we also carried out consultations with the central and cooperatives to discuss topics relevant to the development of our sustainability strategy, including: the Sustainability Guidelines for the topic of Inclusion and Diversity (page 60); the neutralization of systemic GHG emissions (page 95); the development of our Sustainable Development Framework (page 41) and our Sustainability Committees (page 57). GRI 102-21Group of stakeholders GRI 102-40 / 102-43Form of engagement / Frequency Governance: groups that support and participate in business management, such as associates, core coordinators, advisors and cooperatives and entities that make up the System. »Assemblies / annual »Sustainability Report / annual »NPS survey / monthly »Corporate citizenship actions / according to the cooperatives' agenda »Institutional visits organized by cooperatives to the CAS / according to the cooperatives' agenda Decisions that directly impact the business: are those that regulate business activities or decisions that have an impact on the exercise of the business, such as regulatory bodies, government, suppliers, partners and unions. »Meetings / without defined frequency »Sustainability Report / annual »Official announcements / without defined frequency They build reputation: they are the audiences that generate opinion and that affect, positively or negatively, the company's activities and conduct. They are employees, outsourced, community, press and influencers.- Climate Survey / annual - Internal communications / frequently - Satisfaction surveys / without defined frequency - Assemblies / annual - Sustainability Report / annual - Corporate citizenship actions / according to the cooperatives' agenda - National Meeting with Journalists / annual - Meetings and relationship actions with the press and opinion makers / according to the cooperatives' agenda Representative entities: these are the entities that defend the interests and exercise of cooperatives in the economic and political scenario, at the state, national and global levels. They include Woccu, Confebras, ACI, ACI Américas, ICBA, Sistema OCB, Frencoop, Sister Society Brasil* and Global Women’s Leadership Network*. It also includes entities that defend the interests of the financial sector at state, national and global levels, such as the Central Bank of Brazil, Febraban and ANBIMA.- Sustainability Report / annual - Meetings monthly - Official announcements / without defined frequency - Entities that promote corporate sustainability such as the Global Compact. * These movements seek to increase the participation of women leaders in cooperatives, as well as make a positive impact on their lives in the personal and professional sphere. Find out more about FundaçãoSicredi: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site /fundacao/ »Women’s Committee; »Inclusion and Diversity Committee; »Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis; »The Union Makes Life Program; »School Cooperatives Program; »C-Day; »Volunteer Movement; »Sicredi in the Community; »Social Fund.22 Sustainability Report 2021 23 Sicredi More than 5.5 million members Launch of the ESG investment fund Participation of around 300 thousand members in the assemblies 1,200 tons of food collected on Cooperate Day (Day C) NPS of 74.8%, record satisfaction rate with members R$600 million in funding with the issuance of green bonds for photovoltaic panels Selection of an Independent Advisor to the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, adding diversity to Sicredi's governance R$38.2 billion in the 2021/2022 Harvest Plan 37% growth in the credit portfolio 2nd institution with the largest release of rural credit in the country* More than R$158.8 million in social investment R$438 million in funding through the issuance of social bonds for women entrepreneurs R$27.1 million invested in the development and training of employees, resulting in more than 1 million hours of training2021Highlights * according to Febraban ranking (Dec/2021).25 Sicredi 24 Sustainability Report 2021 National awards and recognition In 2021, our cooperative performance was recognized by a series of awards and rankings. Furthermore, our cooperatives received several local recognitions throughout the year. Discover our main awards and national recognitions: Ranking World’s Best Banks 2021 - Forbes Seventh position in Brazil in the World’s Best Banks 2021 ranking, prepared by Forbes in partnership with the statistics company Statista. Exame Melhores & Maiores 2021 Banco Cooperativo Sicredi ranked 15th among the largest banks that are part of the Exame Melhores e Maiores 2021 guide. Época Negócios 360º Eighth place in the Banks sector ranking, a position influenced by second place in Governance Corporate within the sector. We also ranked sixth in People, eighth in Innovation, tenth in Sustainability, eleventh in Future Vision and fifteenth in Financial Performance, among others. Valor 1000 Ninth place in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. In addition, we also stand out in 11 other categories of the guide, occupying fourth place among the 20 Most Profitable on the Equity and seventh place among the 20 Largest in Credit Operations and Total Deposits.Valor Grandes Grupos Featured in the yearbook Valor Grandes Grupos, prepared by the newspaper Valor Econômico, which presents an analysis of the 200 main companies operating in the country. In the 2021 edition, we moved up one position compared to 2020 and ranked 68th overall, considering all listed companies. Among the 20 largest companies in the finance sector, the institution ranked 12th . Finance Mais Sixth place in the Banks – Financing category, in the Finance Mais ranking, published by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo. BNDES Ranking Due to our good performance in 2020 in the credit lines made available by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) to minimize the impacts of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, we received recognition for the “Incentives for Financial Agents Project” . The state body listed institutions financial institutions with the best performance in granting emergency measures between March and December 2020, and we were recognized with first place in two categories: BNDES Pequenas Empresas – Development Banks/Cooperatives and Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE) – Banks of Development/Cooperatives. Focus – Annual Ranking of Central Bank Projections Fourth place in the Annual Short Term category for the indicators Exchange Rate (score 9.6), IPCA (score 9.2) and IGP-M (grade 8.9). In the Selic Rate, it occupies fifth position in the Short Term Annual (score 9.5) and Medium Term Annual (score 8.9) categories. In addition to the annual, the BC also publishes the ranking monthly, and we were highlighted in every month of the year.Ranking Prisma Fiscal First place in the categories that evaluate the projections of Total Government Expenditure in the Long Term and Primary Result of the Central Government in the Short Term Term. Second place in the projections division on the Nominal Result of the Central Government in the Long Term and third in General Government Gross Debt in the Long Term. Broadcast Projeções Award Sixth place in the General Top and seventh place in the Basic Top, in the 15th edition of the Broadcast Projeções Award, which rewards institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators came closest to reality. FGV Funds Guide First place in the Money Market category for Specialist Assets in the 2021 edition of the FGV Funds Guide. Value Tab Investment Funds Highlight in the Active Fixed Income category for the Fundo Sicredi Institucional FI REF IRF-M, from our own resource manager - Sicredi Asset -, and highlighted in the Shares Index category, with the Schroder Sicredi Ibovespa FIA Fund, managed by our partner Schroder Investment Management. Top 100 Open Corps 2021 For the third consecutive year, featured in the Top 100 Open Corps 2021, an annual survey by 100 Open Startups that recognizes the corporations most open to innovation in Brazil. Banking Transformation Award 2021 – Banking Report Winning case with the 'Implementation of Whatsapp Enterprise + Theo', which involves the use of artificial intelligence to provide more agility and efficiency to service.AgTech Garage Awards Winners of the AgTech Garage Awards, an award given by one of the Latin America's largest innovation hubs for agribusiness, the AgTech Garage. GPTW Certification In August 2021 we became a company certified by GPTW (Great Place To Work), being able to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking, which lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. 23rd edition of the Abrasca Award Second place in the ‘Closed companies’ category of the Abrasca ranking, which awards the best Sustainability Reports of 2020 in Brazil. WYCUP – World Council Young Credit Union People Featured in the World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup), a program established by Woccu ​​(World Council of Credit Unions, in the English translation of the acronym), which recognizes young leaders for significant contributions to their communities and credit unions. We had five winners among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects registered from 13 different countries. Inova 2030 Two ideas chosen from the Global Compact Brazil Network acceleration program, focusing on proposals that contribute to achieving the Development Goals Sustainable (SDG).26 Sustainability Report 2021 Governance and strategy Sicredi Governance Structure We are recognized worldwide in the credit cooperative segment for our governance structure. We are organized into a System, structured based on the specialization of areas, reducing operational costs, enabling economies of scale and inter-cooperation and expanding the possibilities of meeting the demands of members. Each entity has roles specific, providing efficiency gains to our strategy, decision making and the development of internal processes. All these entities, together, form Sicredi. They are linked to cooperatives through capital contributions and have the right to vote on cooperative decisions through core assemblies, with equal weight, regardless of the volume of resources invested. They are the representatives elected by the members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. Society of people, are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to encourage the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services typical of a financial institution. Main link with members, they are also Sicredi's primary decision-making bodies. Each cooperative has a Board of Directors. They lead the development of cooperatives credit at a regional level, supervising affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting their development and expansion. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Each Center has a Board of Directors. Core CoordinatorsAssociadosThis is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation of credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to governance structure. The Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic topics. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ Central Sicredi Brazil Central Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Central NorthCentrais27 Sicredi Administradora de Consórcios Sicredi Corretora de Seguros Sicredi Administradora de Bens SicrediSicredi Guarantor Funds (SFG) The purpose of SFG is to contribute to the credibility, development, solvency and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and provides financial products and services, in addition to promoting the System's access to the financial market. It is responsible for the System's centralized risk management structure and the scaled administration of resources. Its strategic partners are Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Administration.Confederação Sicredi Provides services in information technology, operations, administrative services, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and management of securities portfolios. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Fundação Sicredi Its function is to keep the essence of cooperativism alive in Sicredi's culture, through the development of the systemic sustainability strategy, and programs and initiatives educational, social, cultural, environmental and governance to expand the positive impact of the institution. The Sicredi Foundation has a Board of Trustees. Fiscal Council Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE - College of Executive Directors Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS)Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration.It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and its controlled companies, the Foundation , from Sicredi Guarantee and Confederation Funds. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of members.CAS - Sicredi Administrative Center Evaluates, debates and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning in all matters linked or that may be linked to strategic planning and its execution, in addition to deliberating on rules, regulations and other systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Boards.Companies subsidiariesSicredi Confederation Sicredi Cooperative Bank Sicredi Sicredi Foundation Guarantor FundsGRI 102-18 Cooperatives29 Sicredi 28 Sustainability Report 2021 Democratic decision-making process Our cooperative model has as one of its principles democratic management by members and includes their active participation in decision-making. Their involvement in business management takes place through cooperative assemblies, in which representatives are elected and decided the direction of the business. SicrediPar's Board of Directors is elected and represents the centers and cooperatives and, therefore, the members, being responsible for deliberating on the System's strategic decisions. SICREDIPAR ADVISORS' ELECTION PROCESS GRI 102-24 ¹ SicrediPar's general assembly elects the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council. However, the five presidents of the centrals have a guaranteed place on the council and the other five vacancies are for presidents of singular cooperatives, indicated by each of the centers. Furthermore, one vacancy is appointed by Rabo Partnerships B.V. and the other is reserved for an independent advisor. Our decision-making process is democratic and provides security, as it is made up of two complementary lines. The first is the strategic line, which seeks to consider the opinions presented by cooperatives, centers and the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). The technical areas of the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS) they elaborate and present propositions, involving the central ones, whenever applicable. The representatives of the centrals submit the proposals to the individual cooperatives to collect votes. The representatives of the centrals return the votes of their affiliated cooperatives to the SicrediPar CAD. SicrediPar's Advisory Committees analyze some topics in greater depth and propose recommendations. SicrediPar's Board of Directors (CAD) welcomes the proposals and sends it to the vote of individual cooperatives through representatives of the centrals. The individual cooperatives analyze the proposals and return the vote to the representative of their respective center. After going through the systemic decision flow, the deliberative process is completed, with the appropriate records and formalizations. SYSTEM FLOW OF STRATEGIC DECISION The executive line seeks to execute activities and implement strategic decisions. This line is led by the College of Executive Directors (CDE), composed of the Executive Directors of the centers and the President Director of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. Governance Portal The Governance Portal is a communication channel between cooperatives and their leaders (core coordinators and advisors). Through it, it is possible to share informative materials to support information management with the membership leadership. SICREDI RC 12In core assemblies AssociatesDelegates (Coordinators of core)Cooperatives elect At the general meeting of the central All five centrals have a Board of DirectorsRepresentatives of the cooperativesBoard of Directors of the centralCenters elect At the ordinary general meetings The 108 cooperatives have a Board of DirectorsDelegates (core coordinators)Board of Directors of the cooperativeCooperatives elect based on the vote of members At the general assembly of SicrediPar1Representatives of cooperativesRepresentatives of the centersSicrediPar Board of DirectorsSicrediPar electCAS 1 2 3 5 64Central CentersSicrediPar SicrediParCooperatives31 Sicredi 30 Sustainability Report 2021 SicrediPar Board of Directors Sicredi Participações S.A. (SicrediPar) controls the Cooperative Bank and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. Its Board of Directors allows credit cooperatives to participate, directly and formally, in the management corporate governance, providing greater transparency to the governance structure. The Council meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic topics, including risks, opportunities, policies and other guidelines. GRI 102-26 The composition of the Board complies with the Bylaws and all its members are elected at a general meeting for a three-year term. The Council is made up of 12 members, including: five presidents of the centrals, five presidents of cooperatives, who are appointed by the centrals, an independent advisor and a representative appointed by Rabo Partnerships B.V., an external shareholder of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. In 2021, the Board had 11 members following the vacancy in the position of independent advisor, who will be elected at SicrediPar's General Assembly in 2022. GRI 102-24 To exercise this role, candidates must meet the requirements required by legislation and the Statute Social. In the process of evaluating candidates, factors such as diversity of training and experiences related to economic, environmental and social topics are considered, to ensure the knowledge and expertise necessary for the role. GRI 102-24 Members of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar (term 2021 to 2024) GRI 102-22 Fernando Dall’AgneseChairman of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. President of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi. President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast - 2021 Celso Ronaldo Raguzzoni FigueiraVice-President of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Guarantees. Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi. President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Brasil Central. Manfred Alfonso DasenbrockMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Guarantors. Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi. President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ. Director of WOCCU and WOCCU Foundation (World Council of Credit Cooperatives). João Carlos SpenthofMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi. President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Centro Norte. Wilson Ribeiro de Moraes FilhoMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi. President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste. Marcos André BalbinotMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Alternate member of the Sicredi Foundation Board of Trustees. Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Serrana RS / MG. Sadi MasieroMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Alternate member of the Sicredi Foundation Board of Trustees. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Centro Sul MS. Eledir Pedro TechioMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Alternate member of the Sicredi Foundation Board of Trustees. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Ouro Verde MT. Jaime BassoMember of Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Alternate member of the Foundation's Board of Trustees. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Vale do Piquiri ABCD PR/SP. João Bezerra JúniorMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. Alternate member of the Sicredi Foundation Board of Trustees. Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Evolucion. Cornelis BeijerMember of the Board of Administration at SicrediPar and Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. Director of Rabo Partnerships.Succession on the Board of Directors In 2021, we elected the new President and Vice-President of the Boards of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, Confederação Sicredi, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores and the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi. From the 2022 meetings onwards, we adopted the exclusive presidency model, in which the elected Chairman of the Board of Directors does not will occupy a strategic or executive position in any other Sicredi entity, without accumulating functions. GRI 102-18 / 102-23In addition, we also had changes to the Board of Directors and the formation of Committees supporting the Board of Directors. The position of independent director was filled in March 2022. The selection process included a diversity component and a female Director was chosen, elected at the SicrediPar General Assembly in March 2022. GRI 102-18 Leadership remuneration Our remuneration policy aims to reward administrators for actions that guarantee Sicredi's sustainability in the short, medium and long term. This internal rule takes into account the size of the entities and the composition of their assets. GRI 102-35 There is a short-term annual variable portion, linked to the business performance in the period and a long-term variable portion aimed at retaining statutory employees, sustainability of the business, career transition and succession. GRI 102-35 Management remuneration is discussed in internal forums, committees and the entities' Board of Directors. Presidents' fees are approved at a general meeting of members and directors' fees are approved by the Board of Directors, both for centrals and cooperatives. GRI 102-36 / 102-37 Councilors of central and cooperatives receive attendance cards or monthly fees approved in general assembly of members, also observing the size of each entity. Similar rules are used for companies based in Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS), approved at a general meeting, observing the specific legislation of each company. GRI 102-35/ 102-36 Assessment of the Board of Directors Due to the beginning of the mandate of the new formation of the Board of Directors, we did not carry out the assessment of the Board in 2021. GRI 102-2833 O Sicredi 32 Report of Sustainability 2021 Advisory committees Systemic strategy The Board of Directors of Sicredi Participações S.A. is advised by permanent committees, which have the function of analyzing certain matters in greater depth and making recommendations to the Board of Directors. We continue with our actions guided by Inspirational Planning 2030, which consolidated our actions as a System and established our purpose: “to build a more prosperous society together.” Of that Therefore, we place positive impact as the focus of our long-term vision, aligning our actions with the principles of cooperativism and sustainable development. We also have as a guide the Strategic Planning cycle 2020 – 2023, which establishes short-term objectives, placing the associate at the center of our business model, and incorporates sustainability as a transversal theme, demonstrating that all systemic actions must comply with the guidelines of theme.Committee of Strategy Assists in structuring long-term strategies and in assessments regarding entry into new markets, strategic associations and possible acquisitions, mergers and sales of companies in the System, as well as monitoring our strategic drivers. Sicredi Foundation Committee Assists in decisions that encompass the implementation and development of the systemic sustainability strategy, and educational, social, cultural, environmental and health programs and initiatives. governance to expand the positive impact of the institution. People Committee Supports decisions related to people management policies at the systemic level, as well as other strategic people management issues. Guarantee Funds Committee Assists in decisions related to the use of Guarantee Fund resources intended for corporate use, including recommendations for technical feasibility studies and economic-financial recovery, procedures administrative and sanctions in case of non-compliance with the conditions for access to resources. Risk and Compliance Committee Supports the formulation, monitoring and control of the policies and methodology we employ related to (legal or internal) credit, market and liquidity, operational, environmental and other risks, in addition to the Risk Appetite Statement, Compliance Policy and Compliance Program . Audit Committee Assists in decisions regarding standards and procedures to be adopted by the System's member entities in relation to Internal Audit, External Audit and Cooperative Audit to comply with legislation and our internal regulations, as well as analysis of Internal and External Audit reports related to CAS and central companies. INSPIRATIONAL 2030 PROTAGONISM IN SOCIETY Be a protagonist of local and sustainable development. DIFFERENTIATION FOR THE MEMBER Provide the best experience cooperative for members, focusing on their development. INNOVABILITY Having the ability to always learn, to innovate and grow with associates and society. ENTREPRENEURIAL MANAGEMENT Being entrepreneurial and dynamic, leading a renewed cooperative model that is relevant to society. PEOPLE Having a humanized and inclusive work culture, with pride in what we do together.Build a more prosperous society together GRI102-1835 O Sicredi 34 Sustainability Report 2021 Sustainability strategy Due to the cooperative nature of our business, interest in the community, a sense of cooperation and social justice, transparency and responsibility for local responsibilities have always been present in our history. In this way, the management model itself has in its essence a sustainable operation. We have a Sustainability Policy that establishes the principles and guidelines that guide the strategy and decision-making in all areas of the business and in the relationship with interested parties. GRI FS15 The Policy defines that, for Sicredi, sustainability is business management with a focus on expanding the positive economic, social and environmental impact, reducing adverse impacts and generating value for associates, employees, the community and other interested parties. The management, review, communication and systemic guidance for the implementation and compliance with the Sustainability Policy are responsibility of the SicrediPar Board of Directors. GRI FS15Sustainability governance The Sustainability Policy establishes that our work on the topic is transversal, that is, it is the responsibility of all employees, regardless of their area of ​​activity or hierarchical level. SicrediPar's Board of Directors is responsible for management, review, communication and systemic guidance for the implementation and compliance with the Policy. GRI 102-19 Na governance of the topic, we have two structures with different responsibilities. One of them is focused on decision-making and has SicrediPar's Board of Directors as responsible for the sustainability issue and for driving the System's strategy, advised by the Foundation Committee. GRI 102-19 The structure aimed at implementing the theme has Sustainability Committees installed at national, regional and local levels, ensuring robust management in all levels of the System, in addition to the commitment of all leaders to the topic. GRI 102-19The Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy establishes the guidelines for managing socio-environmental risks in all entities of the System and in the relationship with associates and other interested parties, preventing the occurrence of financial, legal or reputational losses resulting from social damages, environmental and climate. To do this, observe the legal provisions, regulatory and self-regulatory. GRI FS15 The implementation of the Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy is the responsibility of the Executive Risk Board. GRI FS15 Based on these policies, we define a sustainability strategy that aims to fulfill our mission, vision and purpose, maintaining alignment with our values ​​and other strategic drivers. It guides, in practice, the sustainable development of our business and unfolds through a series of components, described on the following pages. To further advance the implementation of our sustainability strategy, in 2021 we began developing Sustainability Guidelines for the Business. This construction concerns a set of guidelines unfolded from the Sustainability Policy, with the aim of providing more clarity and guidance in the implementation of the sustainability strategy throughout the System. At the beginning of 2022, it is planned to internal dissemination of guidelines for the first theme: Inclusion and Diversity. Throughout 2022, other themes will be mapped and developed, with emphasis on Sustainable Finance and Purchasing. Access the Sustainability Policy https://www.sicredi.com.br/media/politica_de_ sistência.pdfPillars of sustainability: the incorporation of governance and the consolidation of the ESG model Our sustainability strategy is based on expanding our positive impact in a balanced between three pillars: Economic, Social and Environmental. In 2021, we incorporated another pillar into the strategy: Governance. It has the role of ensuring the balanced development of the other pillars, in addition to being in line with our cooperative business model. Therefore, in addition to being signatories to the UN Global Compact, we follow the main global sustainability trends, which increasingly bring the ESG model (acronym in English for Environmental, Social and Governance) to the focus of the market and investors around the world. 37 Sicredi 36 Sustainability Report 2021 Role of leadership in governance and sustainability management GRI 102-20 Leadership Responsibility Chairman of the Board of Directors of SicrediParComply with, promote and encourage the application of the Sustainability Policy, through the adoption of its principles and guidelines and ensure compliance in decision making. Define, monitor, communicate and guide the implementation and compliance with the Socio-Environmental Risk management strategy. Presidents of the Board of Directors of central and cooperatives Comply with, promote and encourage the application of the Sustainability Policy, through the adoption of its principles and guidelines and ensure compliance in decision-making. Promote, encourage and ensure the application of the topic guidelines and rules contained in the Socio-Environmental Risk Management standard. CAS Executive DirectorsComply with and implement the Sustainability Policy in all areas of responsibility. Promote and implement the adoption of rules and actions in their respective regulations, processes and systems relating to products and services impacted by the guidelines contained in the Socio-Environmental Risk Management standard. Executive Directors of cooperatives and centers Comply with and implement the Sustainability Policy in all areas of their responsibility. Promote and implement the adoption of rules and actions of socio-environmental risk management in their respective regulations, processes and systems. Executive Director of Risks at Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Propose to the competent authorities the establishment of the guidelines and rules contained in the Socio-environmental Risk Management standard. Sponsor related processes and procedures for the proper implementation, monitoring, evaluation and control of the topic. Support adjustments at any time, according to Sicredi’s needs or legal/regulatory determinations. Ensure periodic dissemination of guidelines, rules and processes to everyone involved. Directors responsible for the Risks theme of the centers Know, understand, comply with, encourage and supervise the adoption of the guidelines contained in the Socio-Environmental Risk Management standard, as well as report any identified deficiencies to the related areas Support periodic dissemination and training for affiliated cooperatives. Identify possible deficiencies in compliance with the actions established on the topic and report them to the Executive Risk Board of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. Directors responsible for the topic of Risks of cooperatives Know, understand and comply with the adoption of the guidelines contained in the Socio-environmental Risk Management standard. Report to the central office when any situations that may expose Sicredi to socio-environmental risks are identified. Sustainability drivers Our sustainability drivers and focal themes were developed to guide our sustainable development strategy, demonstrating which themes we can, in fact, generate positive impact and on which we should focus our efforts. In 2021, in the context of debates on the Sustainable Development Framework (learn more on page 41), which involved representatives of the System, sustainability experts and leaders, we reviewed these focal themes, facilitating their understanding. With this evolution, we now have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes. GRI 102-46 Local development Promote positive transformations in the locations where we are presentResponsible solutions Operate in a sustainable wayRelationships and Cooperativism Strengthen our business model in a sustainable way GOVERNANCESpread cooperativism and sustainability Strengthen our governance model Promote inclusion and diversity Promote financial education Promote eco-efficient management Ensure integrated risk management Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Promote the local economy Promote financial inclusion Promote the development of people Contribute to development of communities39 Sicredi 38 Sustainability Report 2021 Director: Relationships and Cooperativism GRI 102-47 /103-1 Focal theme Description Impacted audiences Spread cooperativism and sustainability Foster a cooperative culture among employees, associates and the community, reinforcing our democratic, collaborative and transparent difference in our operating model. Also reinforce our values, such as interest in the community, focus on improving the quality of life of associates and communities, adding value, generating income and promoting an environment of development, education and business, in the locations where we are present. Expand the understanding of employees and associates about how sustainability affects our business and decision-making, taking advantage of opportunities and better managing our risks. External: in the relationship with associates and the community. Internal: in governance, with advisors and core coordinators. In internal culture, with employees. Strengthen our governance modelExpand the participation of associates in assemblies and in decision-making, strengthening the feeling of belonging, reinforcing the democratic, collaborative and transparent differential of our management model, strengthening bonds of trust and reciprocity and ensuring the perpetuity of our businessInternal: in governance, with advisors and core coordinators. In internal culture, with employees. Promote inclusion and diversityDirect our actions, always respecting individuality of associates, promoting horizontal, lasting relationships and strengthening the values ​​of cooperativism, such as equality and equity. Promote inclusive and diverse governance, as well as an inclusive and diverse work environment, with plurality of thought, collaboration and innovation. External: in the relationship with associates and government. Internal: in governance, with advisors and core coordinators. In internal culture, with employees. Director: GRI Responsible Solutions 102-47 /103-1 Focal theme Description Impacted audiences Promote financial education Encourage conscious attitudes towards money, offering guidance and advice so that our associates, employees and communities can make considered choices, aligned with their well-being, with autonomy , independence and planning. External: in the relationship with associates, community and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Offer financial and non-financial solutions financial institutions with a positive economic, social and environmental impactIdentify opportunities to create and improve our solutions, with an eye on sustainability, such as: sustainable finance, the green and low-carbon economy, businesses with a positive social impact and promoting the economy local. External: in the relationship with associates, communities and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Ensure integrated risk management Work together with associates to prevent and/or mitigate impacts related to risks of any nature. External: in the relationship with associates, communities and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Promote eco-efficient managementSeeks to make our operations, structures and processes more sustainable. Disseminate the implementation of good practices related to eco-efficiency and combating climate change. External: in the relationship with associates, communities and government. Internal: in culture internally, with collaborators. Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable managementExtend our sustainability concerns to the supply chain and partners, encouraging them to adopt the best social and environmental practices. Provide support for technical training and define specific criteria for hiring, monitoring and evaluating these suppliers. External: in the relationship with associates, suppliers, partners and governance. Director: GRI local development 102-47 /103-1 Focal theme Description Impacted audiences Contribute to the development of communities Strengthen relationships with the community, generating bonds of trust and reciprocity, through structured social investment actions that take into account local needs, aligned with the brand, to the principles and values ​​of cooperativism and corporate citizenship. External: in the relationship with associates, communities and government. Promote the development of peopleInvest in education, training and innovation of our employees, associates and people in our communities. External: in the relationship with associates, communities and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Promote the local economyFoster the local economy through partnerships, strengthening our associates' businesses in the locations where we are present and hiring local suppliers. External: in the relationship with associates, suppliers, communities, government and partners. Promote financial inclusionPromote the financial inclusion of individuals and legal entities, inserting them into the Financial System and providing access to financial solutions.External: in the relationship with associates, suppliers, communities and government.41 Sicredi 40 Sustainability Report 2021 Commitment to the Global Compact and the SDGs By joining the Global Compact, a voluntary initiative of the United Nations (UN), we are committed to complying with its Ten Principles and contribute to achieving the 2030 Agenda, which aims to engage countries, companies, institutions and civil society in support of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They include topics such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources. GRI 102-12 In this way, we adopt these global agendas as guides for our sustainable development, at the same time that we align our business and position ourselves in a systemic way in relation to the topic. The Ten Principles and the SDGs are present in our Sustainability Policy, our Sustainability Strategy and the Sustainable Development Framework, permeating the implementation of the theme in all spheres of the business. In 2021, we made Global Compact courses available on our internal education platform, Sicredi Aprendi, for all System employees. In addition, we began working on the Pact Action Platforms Global, as a way of leveraging discussions and actions on four fronts: • Action Platform for the SDGs • Action Platform for Sustainable Agro • Action Platform against Corruption • Climate Action Platform Our evolution in relation to compliance with the Principles and contribution to the SDGs is reported annually in our Sustainability Report and we will work from 2022 onwards to begin the process of building systemic sustainability objectives and targets for the entire System, connected to the SDGs. Sustainable Development Framework To connect all the dots of our sustainability strategy and offer institutional guidance to support cooperatives in becoming protagonists in local and sustainable development, we created our Sustainable Development Framework. In the following image, we show how the Reference works as a guiding thread, connecting all the components of this strategy (described in the previous chapters): Sicredi and The Smurfs: Together for sustainable development During Global Goals Week, which took place between September 17th and 26th, Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ launched a campaign to promote the SDGs among their audiences using the Smurf characters, considered ambassadors of the SDGs and used globally to publicize the goals. The campaign was carried out in partnership with the ambassadors of the 2030 Agenda and the SDGs, and included a series of videos that were made available on the project's official website and on the social networks of the Central's 31 cooperatives, reaching more than 4 million views. Access the campaign videos at: https://sicrediesmurfs.com.br/ Building a MORE PROSPEROUS society together Mission, Vision and Inspirational Values ​​2030 • PE 2023 Sustainability Policy | Guiding Guidelines Sustainability Strategy Focal Themes - InitiativesSustainability Drivers • Relationships and Cooperativism • Local Development • Responsible SolutionsPillars of Sustainability • Social • Economic • Environmental • Governance The Reference provides a set of initiatives that help us advance the agenda for sustainable development, both at the local and regional level, as well as systemic and brings a series of indicators that serve as the basis for Sicredi’s Positive Impact Measurement. Through them, we can measure our performance in sustainability at the national, regional and local levels, and identify the points where we have opportunities for advancement. In 2021, we reviewed and validated the indicators that make up the Reference, with participation from all levels of the System. From this review, we established what would be the main indicators to be measured and evaluated to measure the impact we generate. During the National Sustainability Summit, an online tool (dashboard) was implemented that allows us to generate reports and monitor our performance. The tool will be made available for use in early 2022. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT BENCHMARK43 Sicredi 42 Sustainability Report 2021 Cooperatives can view the Benchmark in two ways: from an executive or managerial perspective. In the executive view, the executive indicators for each focal theme are presented. Furthermore, it includes business support indicators, which are not linked to sustainability drivers but help us measure the strength of our business. This set of indicators will make up Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, which will be presented annually at the National Sustainability Summit. Through this analysis, cooperatives will be able to know how their performance is compared to the System and discover the main points for improvement, providing important material for analysis by the Cooperative Committees. Local sustainability. From a managerial perspective, the Reference presents all the executive indicators and the middle indicators, allowing complete monitoring of its evolution on the path to sustainable development. POSITIVE IMPACT INDICATORS Relationship and cooperativism 2019 2020 2021 Pilar Page Associates (quantity) 4,466,750 4,901 .724 5,579,161 Social 12 Cooperatives (quantity) 110 108 108 Governance 12 Employees (quantity) 28,613 29,830 34,127 Social 105 Associates who participated in the assemblies (thousands) 432 286 299 Governance 48 Associates who participated in the assemblies (percentage) 11.1% 9.4% 5.4% Governance 48 Core Coordinators ³ (quantity) - 11,238 12,908 Governance 49 Associates participating in the Crescer Program (quantity)87,265 48,161 70,010 Governance 54 Core coordinators trained in basic training ¹² - - 37.9% Governance 49 Advisors trained in basic training - - 58.4% Governance 48 Entities with Sustainability Committees12- - 52 Governance 57 Women in leadership positions – total Elected (core coordinators, counselors, presidents)+statutory+CLT- - 30.77% Governance 62 Young people in leadership positions – total Elected (core coordinators, advisors, presidents)+statutory+CLT- - 22.41% Governance 62 Responsible solutions 2019 2020 2021 Value generated Page Amount invested in the green economy (R$ million) 8,907 16,380 24,582 Economic 80 Employees trained in themes related to economic, social, environmental and climate risks12 - - 29,037 Governance 92 Female agriculture (R$ million) 16,405 18,242 17,538 Economic 80 Low Carbon Agriculture (R$ million) 388,707 4,078.88 6,694.55 Economic 80 Agroecology and Organic Agriculture (R$ million) 3,561 6,803 7.6 8 8 Economic 80 Good agricultural practices (R$ million) 5,384.60 6,865.46 9,246.66 Economic 80 Renewable Energy and Environmental Sustainability (R$ million) 1,077, 81 2,356.12 4,531.13 Economic 80 Financing for solar energy (R$ million) 1,095.80 1,605.6 3,300.00 Economic 82 Absolute greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e)535,792.30 21,358.98 20,636.07 Environmental 95 Total greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse per employee (tCO2e/employee)1.3 0.7 0.6 Environmental 95Agenda BC# In 2021, the Central Bank made relevant regulatory changes in the scope of sustainability and socio-environmental risk management, seeking to improve regulatory commands, and we actively participate in public consultations carried out on the topic. The implementation of the new regulations will be carried out in phases, starting in 2022. In line with the update of the regulatory framework aimed at managing social, environmental and climate risks and the social, environmental and climate responsibility policy, in 2021 we revised the Policy of Socio-Environmental Risk Management and, throughout 2022, we will also review the Sustainability Policy. As an example, we can mention the creation of Sustainability Guidelines based on the new Sustainability Policy, which will direct the role of centers and cooperatives in the various topics mapped, such as inclusion, diversity and sustainable finance. Still aligned with the BC# agenda and the new regulations, we will continue with the implementation of the Sustainable Development Framework as an instrument for measuring our sustainability performance. O Reference will provide input for monitoring and proposing actions by the Sustainability Committees, which are being implemented at all levels of the System, improving our governance and complying with the practices guided by the new regulations. 45 O Sicredi 44 Sustainability Report 2021 BUSINESS SUSTAINMENT INDICATORS Executive indicators 2021 SustainabilityNPS (percentage) 74.8% General principality (percentage) 33.87% Market Share of deposits in the area of coverage (percentage) 3.19% Total net worth (billions) 24.9 Risk-adjusted efficiency index 0.65 Financial performance Sicredi Combinado (thousands of R$) 2019 2020 2021 Total assets 110,629,333 154,860,895 197,573,755 Assets Availability 1,272,645 1,258,087 1,443,685 Interfinanc applications. liquidity 7,281,251 13,044,514 33,716,227 Securities 25,062,076 38,410,830 22,513,768 Interfinancial relations. and interdependence. 4,052,357 4,364,055 5,809,721 General credit 40,216,998 56,885,229 76,316,232 Rural credit 26,111,885 33,068,493 46,702,898 Other credits 3,663,692 4,665,308 7. 390,522 Other values ​​and assets 521,993 515,353 49 9,375 Permanent 2,446,436 2,649,026 3,181,327 LiabilitiesDeposits 70,758 .342 104,638,994 129,536,750 Open market funding 2,194,884 2,343,109 3,257. 872 Obligations for loans and transfers 11,536,591 15,100,199 18,900,783 Other liabilities 8,381,275 12,220,917 20,665,534 Shareholders' equity and non-shareholder participation controllers17.75 8,241 20,557,676 25,212,816 ResultRevenue from financial intermediation 12,739,750 12,663,110 16,959,589 Other operating income 3,041,353 3,669,354 4,401,690 Expenses from financial intermediation 4.87 2,956 4,482,667 6,658,784 Other expenses operational 7. 8 03,715 8,470,768 9,860,894 Results 3,104,432 3,379,030 4,841,601 Interest on equity 373,784 246,116 338,031National Financial Education Week ⁶ Impacted people (millions)74.4 4.4 19 ,0 Social 86 Local development 2019 2020 2021 Value generated Page Municipalities where we are present (quantity) 1,378 1,463 1,600 Social 102 Municipalities with less than 100 thousand inhabitants (percentage) 87% 87% 86% Social 102 Municipalities where we are the only financial institution (quantity) 210 216 230 Social 102 Amount paid to local suppliers (R$ million)4550.50 576.18 850.7 Social 100 Result distributed to members (R$ million)81,044.00 990.00 1,191 Economic 100 Interest on capital paid to associates (R$ million) 374.00 246.00 338 Economic 100 Social Investment Value (R$ million) - - 158.8 Social 111 Systemic education programs (A União Faz a Vida Program and School Cooperatives Program) Participating municipalities ( quantity) 47310551 554 Social 117 Participating schools (quantity) 2,136102,786 2,789 Social 117 Participating educators (quantity) 9,4411023,314 34,953 Social 117 Participating children and adolescents (quantity) 118,15110287,198¹¹441,209 Social 17 Employee Confidence Index - - 88% Social 109 Actions carried out on Day C (quantity) 765 1,033 1,018 Social 118 1 The reduction in the number of participants in 2020 was due to the pandemic. 2 Indicator started to be monitored from 2019. 3 Indicator started to be monitored from 2020. 4 Calculation methodology was changed in 2019. Therefore, it is not possible to compare with previous years. 5 The variations in the 2019 and 2020 results occurred mainly in the indirect scope 3 emissions, due to the impacts of the pandemic and the refinement of the control of data used to prepare the Inventory. The results for 2020 and 2021 presented in the table consider the total emissions following the energy purchase choice approach in Scope 2. 6 We only take into account in-person and digital actions. 7 The method used to calculate the data was changed between 2018 and 2019. 8 The data considers the result distributed in assemblies added to the payment of interest to equity, the value of which is presented in the subsequent line. The results distributed at the meeting correspond to R$526 million in 2018, R$670 million in 2019 and R$744 million in 2020. 9 The data refers to 30 cooperatives. 10 In 2019, we began building a tool to expand the management of Program information. The data reported this year did not reflect the complete picture of 2019. 11 The method used to measure the data was changed between 2019 and 2020, making the information more accurate. 12 New indicator. Seeks to strengthen our business model in a sustainable way. Focal Themes: »Spread cooperativism and sustainability »Promote inclusion and diversity »Strengthen our governance model Pillars: »Governance and SocialRelationship and Cooperativism02Related SDG Chapter:49 Relationship and Cooperativism 48 Sustainability Report 2021 Strengthen our governance model Participation of associates Our cooperative essence places the associate at the center of our business. Core assemblies are the maximum moment of participation in our governance, when members take the lead and participate in the decisions that define the direction of the Cooperative. At the assemblies, members are informed about the main strategic themes of the year in the cooperative and their numbers, elect leaders for the next cycle, define how the financial results will be distributed or invested, among other topics. The decisions of each nucleus are taken by the nucleus coordinators (delegates) to the General Assembly, which consolidates the results of the Nucleus Assemblies and deliberates on the future of the Cooperative. GRI 103-1 Fundação Sicredi is responsible for structuring and providing solutions that facilitate this process and allow an increasing number of members to participate in the democratic process, with transparency and quality. To the Cooperatives are the entities responsible for conducting the decision-making process with their members, providing information and adequate access to events. The centers support the cooperatives in this process. GRI 103-2 To reinforce our alignment with the principle of democratic management, the Pertencer Program encourages the participation of members in cooperatives' assemblies and decision-making processes, including those related to their management and development. Through it, We establish the rules of participation, guide our participatory management model and engage members. GRI 103-2 The Pertencer Program management tool allows us to monitor the assemblies from the creation of the event, registration of voting agendas, reception, and confirmation of the presence of members and measurement of the data that make up our entire democratic management process together to the cooperative's social structure. SICREDI RC 12 In 2021, we included in Training Basic training for employees (mandatory, regulatory training), a course on Sicredi’s Governance Model. The course explains the basic principles and concepts of corporate governance. During the first half of 2021, the period in which the assemblies were held, we were still experiencing a critical phase of the Covid-19 pandemic in Brazil, which required social distancing in some regions. Due to the persistence of the pandemic scenario, we had a decrease in percentage of participating members. To continue the process, we leveraged the technological platform to hold digital assemblies, through which participants were able to attend their assembly, ask questions and interact with the cooperative through chat, have access to the documents and materials presented and vote remotely. Total Audience Age Group Under 20 21,773 21 to 30 46,021 31 to 40 62,828 41 to 50 47,402 Over 50 61,168 Gender Male 138,804 Female 100,388 Business Associates 60,366 Total participants 299,558PROFILE OF MEMBERS PARTICIPATING IN ASSEMBLY GRI 103-3 / SICRED RC 11PERCENTAGE OF MEMBERS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE ASSEMBLIES 11.10% 9.40% 5.7 1% 2019 2020 2021-39% Coordinators Core The core coordinator (delegate) is a volunteer, elected at the core assembly by the members, whose role is to promote dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative with others associates, keeping them informed. Furthermore, they have the responsibility of being the voice of the community, taking demands that support local development. In addition, it is responsible for representing the other members of its group at General Assemblies. CENTER COORDINATORS BY AGE GROUP CORE COORDINATORS BY GENDER Total number of center coordinators 12,908 2,715 3,35996620 5,760 Under 20 years old From 21 to 30 years old From 31 to 40 years old From 41 to 50 years old Over 50 years old 3,221 9,599 Male Female GRI 103-3 / SICREDI RC16Cooperative Management Development Program The Cooperative Management Development Program (PDGC) is one of the programs of the National Cooperative Learning Service (Sescoop) aimed at developing the self-management of cooperatives. Its main objective is to promote the adoption of good management and governance practices. In 2021, several cooperatives in the System participated in the Program, among them, four cooperatives in Central Centro Norte were recognized with the SomosCoop Excellence in Management award, which demonstrates the search for continuous improvement in management and governance. PEG – Governance Excellence Program During the year, Central Centro Norte also worked to implement the Governance Excellence Program (PEG). The initiative aims to enhance the legacy built by our governance, in addition to bringing excellence to management and governance standards, considering internal and external benchmarks. The implementation of this program is based on three stages: • Creation and description of competencies for Counselors; • Carrying out assessments of Central and cooperative advisors; • Structuring the basic/continuous training journey for Counselors and Center Coordinators.51 Relationships and Cooperativism 50 Sustainability Report 2021 Ethics and combating corruption The principles of cooperativism determine our actions and support the sustainable growth of the business and the achievements achieved over time (check out the principles of cooperativism on page 16). GRI 102-16 These principles are described in the Code of Conduct, which guides our moral and ethical conduct. The document consists of a set of guidelines that guide the actions and decisions of all Sicredi members, regardless of their roles and responsibilities, in addition to internal and external relations. GRI 102-16 The Code presents the commitments to corporate governance, transparency, equity, accountability and responsibility necessary in the attitude of each of our employees. It also addresses the topic of sustainability, highlighting the preservation of the environment and the non-tolerance of slave and child labor and corruption. GRI 102-16 The document, together with other internal regulations, also guides employees, business partners and members of senior management, including advisors, on how to avoid conflicts of interest and situations that involve the generation of benefits for any party. To prevent situations like these, our internal processes are defined with due segregation. GRI 102-25 All of our employees undergo basic training in Sicredi Aprendi, our corporate learning system, in which we cover the content of the Code of Conduct. At the end of the training, each employee registers electronic knowledge and adoption in day-to-day work of the principles stipulated in the document. GRI 102-16In 2021, we launched the guide Tips for Conduct in Practice, which serves as support material for employees, complementing the Code of Conduct. The guide seeks to facilitate understanding of the topics covered, providing examples that can be experienced by the employee. GRI 102-17 Also this year, we began the construction of our Anti-Corruption Policy, which considers the relevance of the topic in Brazil and our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (learn more on page 40). The Policy will still undergo final approval and will come into force in 2022. Complaints To meet demands regarding the Code of Conduct, we have made our reporting channel available, with options for registering questions, compliments, complaints and suggestions related to the topic . The channel must be used to record situations with signs of illegality of any nature, and the user can choose whether to be identified or remain anonymous. GRI 102-17 The reporting channel can be accessed via the email address https://www.sicredi.com.br/html/ denuncia , or by calling 0800 646 2519 GRI 102-17 The Compliance team is responsible for management reporting of complaints, their monitoring, investigation and treatment until finalization, maintaining integrity, security and confidentiality. The area has independence, autonomy and direct access to the Executive Board of the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS) and other directors of the entities that make up the System. GRI 102-17Compliance To maintain our commitment to meeting legal and regulatory requirements, we seek to integrate this requirement into our business environment, promoting an organizational culture that values ​​ethics and integrity, aimed at preserving our image and reputation. With this objective, We have structured our Compliance area into three main work fronts: preventing and combating economic and financial crimes, official and external regulations and compliance governance. Furthermore, its actions follow the guidelines of the three pillars based within the Compliance Program: prevention, detection and correction. We are committed to complying with the international recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force against Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (GAFI/FATF) and comply with current regulations, preventing our cooperatives from being used as a means to carry out illicit activities. All cooperatives participate in monitoring to prevent crimes related to money laundering, concealment of assets, rights and values. GRI 205-1 When contracting products and services, we adopt practices to inhibit misconduct, illicit acts or contraventions - to civil, environmental, tax legislation, labor, mandatory to the relationship - as well as anti-corruption and other standards, seeking to establish rules for direct and/or indirect accountability of those involved. GRI 205-1 The movements carried out by members are made available in daily routines and movements in cash exceeding R$50 thousand are made available per event, at any time, with a view to immediate communication to the Financial Activities Control Council (COAF). GRI 205-1In addition, We carry out monthly monitoring through a specific system integrated with our core systems, which cross-references records of financial transactions and the member's income or revenue. This procedure allows the identification of atypicalities, which are evaluated individually. GRI 205-1 The engagement of our employees in topics related to compliance occurs through training and regular awareness campaigns on ethics, risk management and program of compliance. GRI 102-17 Throughout the year, we carried out an internal communication campaign for integrated risk management with the theme “Be a Guardian of our business. Practice Risk Management.” The objective was to foster a risk culture among employees, covering all aspects: Brand, Financial and non-financial risks, Compliance, Security and Internal Audit, explaining the function, benefits, roles and responsibilities of each one. The initiative also complies with Article 8 of CMN Resolution 4557/2017, which highlights the obligation to disseminate Risk Management to all levels of the institution through a structured communication process With the aim of training and raising awareness of our employees about the importance of prevention and combat In relation to illegal acts, we keep training available on the Sicredi Aprendi regulatory training track that addresses anti-corruption and compliance issues. They are: • Code of Conduct: in In a game format, real situations are worked on to enable practical understanding of the provisions of the Code of Conduct. The proposal is that the participant is familiar with the Code of Conduct, follows Sicredi's value map and the set of guidelines, using the document as a reference for moral and ethical conduct to guide their actions and decisions. GRI 205-2 Access our Code of Conduct on the website: https://www.sicredi.com.br/media/codigo_conduta_ digital2020.pdf53 Relationships and Cooperativism 52 Sustainability Report 2021 • Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing (PLDFT): The course aims to present our guidelines and standards for protecting your financial products and relationship channels regarding issues related to money laundering money. GRI 205-2 • Compliance: Consists of a video that addresses the importance of being and being in compliance and presents our Compliance program, focusing on pillars of prevention, detection and correction. As of December 2021, 29,059 employees have accessed the compliance awareness video, representing 94.42%. GRI 205-2 Additionally, we offer two Febraban courses: the Money Laundering Plan (PLD) – Agencies, aimed at all agency employees, and the Money Laundering Plan (PLD) – PLDFT Professionals, for employees allocated at the headquarters of individual cooperatives, central cooperatives and CAS. GRI 205-2 Central CASCentral Sicredi Brasil CentralCentral Sicredi Centro NorteCentral Sicredi North / NortheastCentral Sicredi PR/ SP/RJCentral Sicredi South/ SoutheastTotalPercentage of employees* Elected - 13 19 13 52 64 161 79.3% Senior Leadership 7 16 28 51 74 84 260 96.3% Average Leadership 192 320 497 189 1,560 1,621 4,379 95.5% Professionals 2,059 1,870 2,775 1,104 6,997 7, 951 22,756 86.7% Technicians 3 82 170 63 327 222 867 94.2% Interns 55 61 159 51 231 202 759 66.6% Young Apprentice 15 43 61 34 140 231 524 69.6% Total 2,331 2,405 3,709 1,505 9,381 10,375 29,706 87.0% EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED TRAINING ON THE CODE OF CONDUCT (QUANTITY) GRI 205-2 CO EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED MONEY LAUNDERING PREVENTION TRAINING AND TERRORISM FINANCING (QUANTITY) GRI 205-2 Central CASCentral Sicredi Brasil CentralCentral Sicredi Centro NorteCentral Sicredi North / NortheastCentral Sicredi PR/ SP/RJCentral Sicredi South/ SoutheastTotalPercentage of employees* Elected - 15 19 13 57 66 169 83.3% Top Leadership 7 14 28 49 67 81 247 91.5% Middle Leadership 189 299 449 181 1,434 1,519 4,071 88.8% Professionals 2,015 1,699 2.4 88 946 6,406 7,247 20,801 79, 2% Technicians 3 80 161 61 318 205 828 90.0% Interns 57 60 155 49 221 188 728 63.9% Young Apprentice 19 41 56 32 134 225 503 66.8% Total 2,290 2,208 3.3 56 1,331 8,637 9,531 27,347 80.1 %Security Throughout 2021, electronic transactions grew considerably, following the trends towards increasing the use of digital relationship and work channels and digital payment methods. In order to strengthen our governance model and provide more security to our associates, we reinforced our technologies and internal processes, prioritizing the cybersecurity of our services and products. In 2021, we made progress in delivering the Security Evolution Program, with the main highlights being increased resilience against cyber attacks, resulting from the expansion of threat monitoring, improvements in security controls, implementation of new channel protection technologies and increase in security tests. SICREDI RC13 In preventive actions to combat fraud, we expanded our work to mitigate the risk of fraudulent misrepresentation when opening accounts and made advances in adaptive security that bring more agility and efficiency in identifying fraud. SICREDI RC13 As a result of these initiatives, our Electronic Transaction Security indicator achieved a result of 99.9981% protection across channels, contributing to risk mitigation and a better experience for associates. SICREDI RC13 In physical security, we continued to obtain positive results resulting from the evolution of security resources in branches, closing the year with 2,001 branches monitored by our Alarm and Image Monitoring Center. SICREDI RC13For 2022 we will finalize the first cycle of the Security Evolution Program, which consolidates the evolutions worked on in recent years in the spheres of digital security, cybersecurity, data protection, preventing and combating illicit acts, awareness and security governance. SICREDI RC13 Data protection We continue to implement the Data Protection and Privacy Program, which seeks to comply with the General Personal Data Protection Law (LGPD) based on integrated risk management. To reinforce the understanding of our employees regarding data protection, in 2021 we launched the second series aimed at training regarding Pix and Open Finance, which addresses topics related to data security and member consent (learn more on page 108) . * Percentage of employees who undergo training compared to the total for each functional level.55 Relationships and Cooperativism 54 Sustainability Report 2021 Spread cooperativism and sustainability We believe that, by spreading cooperativism among associates, employees and communities, we increase the positive impact of our business. In this way, we reinforce the democratic, collaborative and transparent differential of our management model, strengthening the bonds of trust and reciprocity in society. GRI 103-1 / 103-2 Fundação Sicredi is responsible for developing systemic strategies for the topic. Cooperatives in their regional operations disseminate the cooperativism and sustainability, through its local initiatives and programs. GRI 103-2 The Crescer Program is our main cooperative education initiative and aims to expand understanding about cooperative societies, their functioning, benefits and differences in relation to other financial institutions. The Program also provides members with an understanding of their role as business owner, qualifying their participation in the cooperative enterprise. GRI 103-3 O Program includes content developed for members, non-members, counselors, core coordinators and collaborators. NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN THE CRESCER PROGRAM 85,265 48,16177,010 2019 2020 2021+60% Graduates of the Crescer Program in 2021 77,010Total employees trained 10,940 Training hours 21,468 Graduates since the beginning of the program 318,525Percentage compared to total members accumulated 5.7% Number of counselors trained in the Crescer Program 2020* 2021 Total 789 768 *The indicator was measured for the first time in 2020Training in cooperativism In addition to the Crescer Program, our cooperatives and centers also conduct a series of events and training to disseminate cooperativism among employees and external audiences. From 2022 onwards, members and communities will have access to training on cooperativism, in addition to other topics, on our Sicredi na Comunidade platform. Find out more on page 110. Through these actions, We strengthen the principles of cooperativism, propagating and infecting people to generate a positive impact on the community. GRI 103-3 GRI 103-3 / SICREDI RC 06 / SICREDI RC07SICREDI RC08 Defense of credit cooperatives In order to contribute to financial inclusion and access to financial services in a sustainable manner, we are members of the World Council of Credit Unions (Woccu ) – the World Council of Credit Unions –, where we hold a seat on the Board of Administration. GRI 102-13 We are also engaged in promoting cooperativism through participation in the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB). GRI 102-13New space of the Sicredi Foundation In 2021, we inaugurated the new physical space of the Sicredi Foundation, which is located at the entrance of the Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS), in Porto Alegre (RS), and has a complete structure to present our history and the positive impact of our business. In it, we implemented the digital memorial, an open space for members and the community where we employ a series of multimedia tools to display videos, infographics and various materials about cooperativism and our own history. In the Foundation's space we also have the new Theodor Amstad Auditorium, with capacity for more than 40 people, where presentations, meetings and events are held — always respecting health protocols during the pandemic. The new environment also provides the opportunity for the birth of new ideas for the development of our business, creating network actions to promote education, citizenship and cooperative culture. 57 Relationships and Cooperativism 56 Sustainability Report 2021 Sicredi Library At the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS), in Porto Alegre (RS), we have the Sicredi library, with a collection of more than 11 thousand copies from different areas of knowledge, with emphasis on cooperativism. The structure can be consulted by members and collaborators across the country, regardless of the location of your cooperative. Number of services provided by the SICREDI library RC14 2020 2021* Total 2,756 228 * In 2021, the Sicredi Library reopened on 10/18/21, with reduced operation (only on Mondays and Tuesdays). Before this period, due to the coronavirus pandemic and the CAS resumption plan, we had no services or loans of new materials. For this reason the number of loans made in 2021 is considerably lower compared to previous years. Woccu ​​Conference 2021 In July, we participated in another edition of the Woccu ​​World Conference (World Council of Credit Cooperatives, in the English translation of the acronym), the largest meeting in the segment in the world. Due to the pandemic, the event was held again virtually, bringing together representatives of credit unions from more than 50 countries to discuss initiatives that can improve people's lives. We highlight the discussions regarding the relationship between young people and the cooperative movement, through a panel that included the participation of Fundação Sicredi. Furthermore, 40 projects developed by members and collaborators were registered in the World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup), a program that recognizes young leaders for significant contributions to their communities and credit unions. Five of them were awarded with the award (find out more in Awards and Recognition, on page 24). By bringing knowledge about sustainability and its relationship with our business to employees, we put our sustainability strategy into practice. Through training on this theme, including basic training at Sicredi Aprendi, we support the local implementation of our systemic initiatives and empower cooperatives and centers to take a leading role in sustainable development. GRI 103-2 / 103-3 In addition, we rely on the training provided by the UN Global Compact Academy platform, on Sicredi Aprendi. The content was developed to contribute to the implementation of sustainability in the business strategy by promoting knowledge on the topic. With this objective, in 2022, we will provide cooperatives with complete training on the Sustainable Development Framework (learn more on page 41), which will contain a guide and a series of videos that will support cooperatives and centers in using the dashboard and measuring their positive impact. Sustainability training Total employees trained 10,329 Training hours 4,861 Sustainability Committees To adapt the systemic sustainability strategy to the reality of each region, we have Committees of Sustainability at the three levels of the System. Central committees have the role of guiding the implementation of sustainability at a regional level, evaluating, debating and recommending initiatives Central Sicredi Brasil Central: 100% of cooperatives with a Sustainability Committee In 2021, Central Sicredi Brasil Central supported the implementation of the Sustainability Committee in its seven cooperatives. For 2022, the Center will continue the process with an action plan to support cooperatives in developing the topic. Mission, Vision and Values ​​INSPIRATIONAL 2030 Strategic Planning 2020-2023 Pillars of Sustainability Economic, Environmental, Social, Governance 3 Sustainability Drivers 12 Focal Themes Sustainable Development Framework + Positive Impact MeasurementStrategic Guidelines Sustainability Strategy Long-term commitments Inspirational 2030Short-term commitments PE – 2020-2023Balanced development in the 4 pillarsSustainability strategy driversReferences guidelines for the sustainable development of cooperatives Measuring the positive impact where we operate OVERVIEW OF CONNECTIONS Inspirational 2030 Planning 2023 Sustainability pillars Sustainability drivers Focal themes • Spread cooperativism and sustainability • Strengthen our governance model • Promote inclusion and diversity • Promote the local economy • Promote financial inclusion • Promote people's development • Contribute to the development of communities • Promote education financial • Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact • Ensure integrated risk management • Promote eco-efficient management • Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management Provide references of initiatives and indicators to guide cooperatives in the development of action plans, aligned with the priorities of each cooperative. Provide a long-term horizon that allows each cooperative to build your journey, within clear and systemic guidelines, that enable gradual evolution.Provide guidance in development based on sustainability drivers and the focal themes of materiality.• Relationships and local development • Responsible solutions• Economic • Environmental • Social • Governance• Associate principality • Platform model • Engaged people • Development and growth • Governance and succession• People • Protagonism in society • Differentiation for members • Innovability • Entrepreneurial management References Indicators ODSMISSION, VISION AND VALUES OF SICREDEXTERNAL COMMITMENTS | GLOBAL COMPACT 18 19SICREDI RC10related to the topic. Currently, 100% of the centers have this body in their structure. GRI 103-3 Cooperative committees recommend actions and evaluate local indicators. The Sustainable Development Framework is an important tool in this process, helping cooperatives to identify their level of maturity on the topic and the points for improvement to be worked on. Currently, 47 Cooperatives have Sustainability Committees. GRI 103-359 Relationships and Cooperativism 58 Sustainability Report 2021 National Sustainability Summit At a systemic level, we held the National Sustainability Summit, an event that aims to align the Sustainability Strategy at a national level. This year, with the central theme “Impacto Positivo do Sicredi” the online event brought together more than 500 people, including directors, executives and professionals involved with the implementation of the theme in centers and cooperatives and brought as a speaker the sustainability specialist Sonia Favaretto – SDG Pionner by the Global Compact of UN and President of the Advisory Board of GRI Brasil. The event had three moments with different objectives and audiences. • Meeting of SicrediPar Advisors and Directors Central and CAS executives; • National Meeting of Sustainability Committees; • National Meeting for the Development of Cooperatives. During the event, relevant topics were discussed such as the Sustainable Development Framework, measurement of positive impact and the implementation of Sustainability Committees, as well as actions to recognize and engage employees who work directly with the topic of sustainability in their communities. Promote inclusion and diversity Diversity in governance The principle of cooperativism “Free and Voluntary Membership” highlights our openness to greater inclusion and diversity in the membership. In our daily lives, we seek to build an inclusive and diverse environment, with plurality of thought, collaboration and innovation, considering the needs and individuality of each person, continually expanding perspectives and diversity perspectives. GRI 103-1 In 2021, the Board of Directors of SicrediPar defined that the position of Independent Director of SicrediPar would be occupied by a woman. We began the selection process of candidates, which was completed with the inauguration of the future Director at SicrediPar's general meeting, in March 2022. In this way, we reinforced our positioning and materialized our actions for equity in governance. Furthermore, for the year 2022, we will make available the Sustainability Guidelines document for the topic of inclusion and diversity with the aim of guiding the actions of cooperatives throughout the System. GRI 103-2 Supported by the Sustainability Guidelines for the topic of Inclusion and Diversity, we are structuring the Inclusion and Diversity Committee, in order to execute our efforts with aligned objectives and practices, at all levels of the System.OUR ADVANCES IN DIVERSITY Greater representation of women in leadership Structuring of the Inclusion and Diversity Committee, planned for 2022Sustainability Guidelines for the topic of inclusion and diversity National Sustainability Summit 202161 Relationships and Cooperativism 60 Sustainability Report 2021 NUMBER OF COOPERATIVES WITH WOMEN'S COMMITTEE 333640 2019 2020 2021+12% Within the Inclusion and Diversity Strategy we are foreseeing the structuring and instruments ization of Inclusion and Diversity Committees, which will be made available to cooperatives. These committees will have the role of advise the executive boards of Sicredi entities on the implementation of actions to execute the Inclusion and Diversity Strategy, at all levels of the business. The Committees will aim to address the topic of Inclusion and Diversity in the system and collaborate in the development of policies and practices designed to ensure equality in labor relations, respect for human rights and incorporate Inclusion and Diversity into the business. We will also seek to offer a institutional guidance to the Inclusion and Diversity Committees already initiated (in three entities), aiming to enhance the actions already carried out. In 2022, the R&D Committee's strategy will be deployed in the system's cooperatives. Through these actions, we promote the empowerment of women associated in the cooperative movement, expanding gender diversity in leadership and management positions in society and entities. In 2021, 37% of cooperatives had the Women's Committee. SICREDI RC18 / GRI 103-3 The systemic orientation is that the Board of Directors is the guardian of the initiative in cooperatives, with the president being its local sponsor. The program is divided into four levels: • Women Committee – Agency; • Women’s Committee – Cooperative; • Summit Regional Committees for Women; • National Women's Committees Summit. At the end of 2021, we had 36.7% women in our membership, but only 24% of women are core coordinators. Among the Administration and Fiscal Councilors throughout the System, the percentage of women is 16%. SICREDI RC02The Youth Committee aims to encourage the development of young people through education and cooperativism, encouraging their engagement in the cooperative movement, making them social protagonists in the region where they live. Furthermore, it has the important role of maintaining the longevity of our cooperative business, thinking about the training of our future leaders. GRI 103-3 The Program has a methodology developed for the training of members, with language aimed at the public between 18 and 35 years old, carried out over 18 months. It includes a series of meetings and activities based on four perspectives: accessible language, content pills, real challenges and collaboration between members. Among the themes explored are cooperativism and financial education, leadership and protagonism, exploration and prototyping, self-knowledge and purpose, sustainability and positive impact, entrepreneurship and innovation and volunteering. Participants go through a mentoring stage, carried out by mentors selected and hired by Fundação Sicredi, in which the young person can count on customized support for this stage of training. The process of local articulation of your projects can be carried out by collaborators, core coordinators or community associates, who become the project's ambassador. NUMBER OF COOPERATIVES WITH YOUNG COMMITTEE 212623 2019 2020 2021-11% Women's Committee: Increasing the participation of women in leadership The Cooperativa Sicredi Progresso, from Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, is an example of how the implementation of a Women's Committee supports increasing the representation of women in the governance of cooperatives. After the implementation of the local Committee, the female presence among core coordinators grew from 22% to 40%, from 14% to 57% on the Board of Directors and from 17% to 50% on the Board Supervisor. In 2021, the program was partnered with Junior Achievement, through the JA Startup initiative, which supports participants in building projects with social impact for the communities where they live. To exchange knowledge between young people from different communities, we work with regional youth summits. Additionally, young participants in the Youth Committee are encouraged to submit their projects in the WYCUP Global Competition (learn more on page 56). Regarding age group, 33.8% of our members are under 30 years old and 29.2% of our members are over 50 years old. In 2021, 21% of cooperatives had a Youth Committee. SICREDI RC20 Aiming to encourage and increase the representation of women on the Boards of Directors, Supervisory Boards and core coordination of our cooperatives, the Women's Committee aims to promote gender equity in credit cooperatives and at all management levels of the organization. He operates through the training of women so that they can increasingly assume leading and leadership roles in cooperatives and communities.Number of Women participating in the SICREDI RC17 Women's Committee 2,492Number of participants in the SICREDI RC19 Youth Committee 1,479 Women participating in the Women's Committees who were elected Core Coordinators 330Participants of the Youth Committees who were elected Core Coordinators 128 Participants of the Youth Committees who were elected Councilors 10Women participating in the Committees Women who were elected Councilors 8663 Relationships and Cooperativism 62 Sustainability Report 2021 Diversity We have increasingly sought to build an inclusive and diverse environment, giving value to plurality of thoughts, collaboration and innovation. We work to give everyone the same opportunities for growth, and we seek to promote horizontal and lasting relationships, strengthening the values ​​of cooperativism, such as equality and equity. We understand the importance of moving further and further on the topic and, to support us in this development, we are implementing the Sustainability Guidelines for Inclusion and Diversity and the Inclusion and Diversity Committees (learn more on page 60). This construction aims not only to make our spaces emotionally safe for all employees who make up the institution's current staff, making them feel valued as they are, but also seeks to demonstrate to future talents that we are open to different people, ideas and ways. 41.5% 38.8%5.2% 3.2% 11.2% Under 20 years old From 21 to 30 years old From 31 to 40 years old From 41 to 50 years old Over 50 years old EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP GENDER OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL DIVERSITY OF EMPLOYEES Men WomenYoung Apprentice Interns Technical Professionals Medium Leadership High Leadership Elected 37.98% 35.35% 38.04% 38.12% 54.83% 88.89% 95.07% 4.93%11.11%45.17%61.88%61.96%64.65%62.02%Young people in leadership*Women in leadership**Men Women Black and brown peoplePeople with disabilities35.6 % 41.7 % 41 % 59 % 2.3 % 2.5 %PROPORTION BETWEEN THE REMUNERATION OF WOMEN AND MEN (PERCENTAGE) GRI 405-2 Proportion between the base salary of women and men*Proportion between the average remuneration of women and men** 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 Elected 82% 68% 68% 82% 70% 63% Top Leadership 90% 87% 81% 90% 91% 84% Middle Leadership 71% 71% 71% 72% 74% 74% Professionals 81% 81% 83% 82% 87% 88% Technicians 78% 167% 92% 80% 146% 99% Interns 99% 103% 98% 99% 103% 98 % Young Apprentice 100% 100% 100% 100% 96% 100% Total 61% 61% 63% 62% 67% 68% EMPLOYEES WHO USED PARENTAL LEAVE GRI 401-3 Men Women Total Number of employees who used the leave (quantity ) 637 1,046 1,683 Number of employees who returned to work after leave (quantity) 636 1,026 1,662 Employees who returned to work work after leave (percentage) 99.84 98.09 98.75 Number of employees who completed 12 months of work after leave (quantity) 580 919 1,499 Employees who completed 12 months of work after leave (percentage) 91.19 89.57 90.19 Channel accessibility We continue to improve the accessibility of our financial products and services and service channels, in line with our commitment to inclusion and diversity. Thus, we reinforce essential values ​​of the cooperativism as equality and equity. In 2021, 100% of our ATMs were in compliance with the ABNT– NBR–15250– 2005 standard, which includes tactile key signaling and the use of sound information among its requirements. SICREDI RC04 For our agencies, we maintain technical documentation that guides accessibility requirements in their physical environment, in line with NBR 9050, with guidance for its implementation, under the responsibility of each cooperative. SICREDI RC03 “Conexões” Program The Conexões program, developed by Sicredi União PR/SP, aims to facilitate access to information and promote inclusion through service in Libras (Brazilian Sign Language). Deaf members have at their disposal a professional fluent in Libras who acts as an interpreter, both in-branch and remotely, with Libras service available via WhatsApp. The Program was implemented in city agencies of Maringá/PR and will gradually reach the cooperative’s area of ​​operation. GRI 405-1 * To calculate the base salary, we use the full salary value. ** To calculate remuneration, the contractual salary, bonuses, benefits and potential for earning short- and long-term variable remuneration were considered, according to the remuneration elements available for each position. * Statutory + CLT, up to 35 years. ** Statutory + CLT. Responsible solutions03Chapter Operate sustainable way. Focus Themes: »Promote financial education »Offer financial and non-financial solutions with economic, social and environmental impact »Ensure integrated risk management »Promote eco-efficient management »Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management Pillars: »Economic, Social and Environmental Related SDGs:67 Responsible Solutions 66 Sustainability Report 2021 Offer financial and non-financial solutions with a positive impact economic, social and environmental Relationship with associates We consider it essential to maintain a close relationship with associates, after all, they are the owners of the business. GRI 103-1 Therefore, we seek to establish channels, physical and digital, to learn about your opinions, suggestions and complaints, in addition to understanding your needs, offering financial solutions that add income and contribute to improving the quality of life, promoting the local economy and the inclusion financial. GRI 103-2 The Relationship Policy with Associates, Customers and Users of Financial Products and Services establishes that relationships with associates must be based on the principles of cooperativism and our values, in line with regulatory and ethical determinations. It also reinforces the need to provide information clearly and accurately, in addition to meeting demands in a timely manner. GRI FS15 Throughout the year, we started updating the Policy, we carry out controls and implement processes with the aim of acting more deeply on financial inclusion, in addition to relating in a more transparent way, simplifying communication with this audience. GRI FS15 We work with greater attention to the needs of the most vulnerable associated audiences, which are all those who may encounter difficulties in using our services, such as people with physical or mental disabilities, the elderly, people living in most vulnerable communities with little access to information. In this way, we seek to bring more transparency and simplicity in communications and use of our products and services, increasing the financial inclusion of our business. Policy management is the responsibility of the Ombudsman, an area also responsible for responding to complaints and demands from members and implementing systemic improvements based on them. GRI FS15 In 2021, with the aim of being connected to actions carried out at the branches, the area implemented the Ombudsman Focal Points Program in 100% of the cooperatives, and trained more than 200 employees on good customer service practices and the premises of the Relationship Policy. These employees are a point of contact between the Ombudsman's Office, located in the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS), and the cooperatives/agencies, working more effectively to improve the member's experience. Member satisfaction To monitor member satisfaction, we carry out several surveys. The metric used by the organization to measure the relationship experience with the brand is the Net Promoter Score (NPS). In 2021, from January to December, more than 173 thousand interviews were carried out with members of the individual, agribusiness and legal entity segments. Our Brand Relationship NPS in 2021 closed at 74.79%, which represents a growth of 2 percentage points compared to last year. Our most satisfied segment are Individual members, representing an NPS of 76.85%. In all segments, the NPS showed positive evolution, with emphasis on the growth of the indicator in the Agribusiness segment, which increased by more than 3 percentage points compared to 2020. Through the Transactional NPS, we measure the associate's experience at specific points in our relationship, such as opening a current account. In this topic, our NPS closed 2021 in an area of ​​excellence, with an index of 85.73%. NPS Social identifies the perception that people have regarding Sicredi based on comments on social networks. Through the analysis of 7,700 interactions on our networks, carried out in December, we reached a satisfaction rate of 42%. Relationship channels We are committed to developing relationship channels connected to the evolution of our systems, especially the new platform that processes our financial solutions (new banking core). In this way, we seek to expand integration between all available channels, whether physical or digital, at the same time as we expand the offer of products and services and add new functionalities, such as mobility and omnichannel. In this context, the Sicredi application has become increasingly used. We recorded 3.3 billion transactions on the app, a volume higher than any other channel. It gained new features, such as the possibility for members to consult their PIX transactions over the last 180 days, the consultation and management of transactional limits via Pix and a new menu to consult home and automobile insurance already contracted. G4-FS14 For greater security and transparency, we have evolved biometrics for accessing the application. The user is warned more clearly that enabling biometrics allows access to their account using all biometric data registered on the device. Also We implemented a control that requires entering a password when biometric data is changed on the device, for greater security when using the application. G4-FS14 Still focusing on transparency, we included the channel's privacy policy for members to access in the My Profile menu. G4-FS14 We also reactivated an important functionality of the application, the automatic activation of mobile tokens. 69 Responsible Solutions 68 Sustainability Report 2021 With this option, users They no longer need to go to a branch to activate the security device in the app, as long as certain criteria are confirmed to guarantee the integrity of the account. G4-FS14 In internet banking, we offered the possibility of consulting Pix movements, including the display of future launches on some screens that did not yet have this option. G4-FS14 In addition, we provide members who use this channel with a hybrid bill, thus complementing the billing functionality. To facilitate adherence to the product, we use another improvement implemented this year in internet banking, digital membership. Through it, the member subscribes to the product or service of interest, without the need for in-person authentication or the use of an external digital certificate. G4-FS14 At the same time, we remain focused on advancing our physical channels. We started using the Recycling ATM, which allows the public to carry out deposits without using an envelope and with credit to the account instantly. With this transaction available, members and non-members can make their deposits even outside branch opening hours. G4-FS14 In the second half of the year, we enabled the receipt of the new R$ 200 banknote at the Caixa Eletrônico Recicladores. By the end of December, the ATMs Recicladores park already had 85 pieces of equipment installed in the branches. We also make available to members account holders on our digital platforms transactions Service via Whatsapp In 2021, we started offering members the possibility of contacting their branch via Corporate Whatsapp. Service via the app enabled agile service, providing practical access to services and information. New opportunities for people to learn about the benefits that credit unions offer. Easy access to information about products and services practiced in the market. Integrates the BC# Agenda, of the Central Bank of Brazil, which aims to make the National Financial System more democratic and inclusive. Open Finance In 2021 we continued our process of implementing Open Finance, an initiative of the Central Bank of Brazil that seeks to create a financial system more open and transparent for customers and associates, through data sharing between financial institutions. We transitioned the name to “Open Banking” for “Open Finance”, with the aim of bringing to members the vision of a financial system that goes beyond a banking system. Throughout the year we implemented the initial phases of data sharing with the Central Bank, enabling the offering of products with better conditions for members. With the protection of the General Data Protection Law (LGPD), information will be shared securely and with the authorization of each member, and may be interrupted at any time. time. To prepare employees for this new moment in the National Financial System, we have made available a web series about Open Finance, on the internal Sicredi Aprendi platform, divided into chapters that are updated as the topic advances in the System. More than 12,000 collaborators accessed the web series. We also held live streams about the implementation of phase 2, with the participation of 3,459 employees. Still in the first half of the year, we started publishing on the data portal information about our Accredited Agents is open at the Central Bank, facilitating the search and identification by members and non-members of the locations where banking correspondents linked to Sicredi operate. G4-FS14 In the same delivery, we began to publish information about our withdrawal and deposit branches without an envelope on the Saque e Pague external network, which has more than 2,500 terminals installed in retail. G4-FS14 We also enable message notification of INSS beneficiaries at the ATM, providing information on pending issues with the agency and facilitating communication with beneficiaries. And, still in the second half of the year, the Federal Servant Life Proof was enabled on the Caixa Eletrônico channel, now notifying the server that they need to provide proof with the agency. G4-FS14open data portal, such as address, opening days and hours, geolocation and available products and services. This delivery facilitates the location of Sicredi service points for the market. G4-FS14 In the application, we included functionalities for managing consent regarding data sharing within the Open Banking menu. G4-FS14 In Phase 4, scheduled for 2022, participating financial institutions will begin sharing insurance, exchange, investment, acquiring and pension data with the Central Bank of Brazil. OPEN FINANCE OPPORTUNITIES71 Responsible Solutions 70 Sustainability Report 2021 Innovability Innovability is an important pillar of our Strategic Planning 2020-2023. During 2021, we encourage an innovative environment for all entities in the System, where we also rely on local initiatives from our cooperatives. Discover some of the actions: Launch of the Local Innovations Process: Aims to identify local innovations in cooperatives and, if they adhere to the established criteria, make a project viable for systemic escalation. Systemic innovation indicator: We approved the update of the IVR indicator (innovation speed index), which is part of the GPTW methodology implemented in 2021. Innovate Together: Our program to connect with startups. In 2021, among the experiments carried out with startups, three ideas had their hypotheses validated, with the possibility of scaling the solution. Since 2018 we have had 27 experiments with startups, in which nine ideas had their hypotheses validated and evolved to the stage of scaling the solution. Instituto Caldeira: In 2021 we formalized our physical space at Instituto Caldeira, an ecosystem to promote the new economy and with the purpose of transforming Porto Alegre (RS) into a more attractive and innovative city. Our presence provides an opportunity to search for innovative solutions with startups and other partners that are part of the ecosystem.Inova 2030 Inova 2030 is an acceleration program developed by Rede Brasil do Pacto Global, focusing on young professionals who want to solve a challenge in our business and contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In the 3rd edition of the program, two ideas will represent us: Project Planting the Future: small productive properties, from Sicredi Vale do Cerrado, in Mato Grosso. Project Educational game about cooperativism, by Sicredi Cerrado, in Goiás. During 2022, participants will go through a process of mentoring and training to develop your ideas and put projects into practice.Financial products and services Our products and services directly impact the lives of members and their communities, generating prosperity, income and security for their investments. As the member is at the center of our business model, our financial solutions are developed to meet their needs first and foremost. GRI 103-2 This is reinforced in our policies and internal regulations, such as the Relationship Policy with Associates, Customers and Users of Financial Products and Services (learn more on page 66), the Sustainability Policy (page 34), the Socio-environmental Risk Management Policy (page 88), the Policy of Compliance, Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing (PLDFT), the Code of Conduct and strategic planning. GRI 103-2 / G4-FS15 In 2021, our portfolio of products and services generated a revenue of 20.3 billion, divided between the following business lines: OUR PORTFOLIO Share of business lines in total revenue (R$ thousands) GRI 103-3 / FS6 2019 2020 2021 Value (R$ thousands) PercentageValue (R$ thousands) PercentageValue (R$ thousands) Percentage Credit 10,479,202 70% 11,091,757 72% 14,077,578 69% Financial income 2,260,548 15% 1,571,353 10% 2,882,010 14% Provision of services 2,323,327 15% 2,750. 751 18% 3,353,626 17% Banking services 858,511 6% 941,934 6% 972,059 5% Insurance 364,278 2% 412,390 3% 465,354 2% Cards 454,732 3% 701,514 4% 1,034,343 6% Billing 284,572 2% 316,063 2% 361,349 2% Cons orcias 189,793 1% 201,162 1% 292,235 1% Agreements 73,114 0 % 82,832 1% 91,847 0% Other services 98,327 1% 94,856 1% 136,439 1% Total 15,063,077 100% 15,413,861 100% 20,313,214 100% YOUNG INNOVATORS IN ODS YOUNG INNOVATORS IN SDG73 Responsible Solutions 72 Sustainability Report 2021 Credit Our wallet of Credit grew 37% in 2021, demonstrating our growing capacity to support members in meeting their needs and contributing to the country's economic development. Currently, our portfolio is made up of R$86 billion in commercial credit and R$47 billion in rural and targeted credit. CREDIT BALANCE AND CONCESSION (BILLIONS OF R$) 2019 2020 2021 Balance 72.2 97.2 133.1 Concession 64.0 77.4 97.9 Commercial Credit In 2021, we had a growth of 34.8% in our commercial credit portfolio and carried out several actions to raise funds more effectively, aligned with the monetary and sustainability agenda, with options linked to social and environmental aspects (learn more about the products linked to the Green Economy on page 79). In the Individuals segment, we maintained the offer of the credit line for Anticipating the FGTS Birthday Withdrawal. The line recorded a total of 71.6 thousand operations released throughout 2021, with concession of R$102.8 million. In relation to emergency credit products launched by the government In this context, we provide specific credit lines for installing solar energy on rural properties, with around R$1 billion in resources. To increase this portfolio and generate greater agility and practicality in contracting, in 2021, we created the Rural Product Certificate (CPR) Solar Energy. In 2021, we developed the ABC Sicredi line (Agricultura de Baixa Carbon Emission), focused on the green economy, with the raising of its own resources. Throughout the year, we noticed an increase in the participation of women in agribusiness. In December 2021, we had a total of 635,401 associates in the agro segment. Of this total, 145,962 were women, representing 22.97% of members in this segment. For the 2021/2022 Harvest Plan, we will make around R$38.2 billion available. The value represents an increase of 31% compared to that granted in the harvest year previous. This year, considering the entire context of the pandemic and changes in the rules of the Safra Plan, we remained alongside our members, providing lines of credit and evaluating the needs to extend debt maturity during this period of reduced economic activity. We analyze case by case, aiming to find the best alternative for each member.federal in 2020, aiming to support micro and small companies, we provide cooperatives with the opportunity to obtain the honor by the guarantee funds (FGI and FGO) of those credit operations that may not be partially or completely fulfilled by the member. For these lines, we obtained honors in the order of R$19.4 million in 443 impacted operations. Real Estate Credit In the housing area, we contributed to reducing the Housing Deficit, increasingly expanding our participation in this market of extreme economic and social relevance in the country. In this sense, we close the year 2021 with a portfolio of R$1.28 billion in real estate credit. We had a 102% increase in the Property Acquisition portfolio compared to 2020. Furthermore, we granted R$64 million in 424 contracted operations aimed at the construction of residential properties, adding value to the local economy. In credit for construction and renovation, we closed the year with R$2.18 billion in active balance, a growth of 25% compared to 2020. With this product we encourage the hiring of labor and acquisition of construction materials in the regions in which we operate. Agribusiness Credit We support the agribusiness sector at all stages of its production chain, providing solutions with socio-environmental attributes for rural producer members. We are the 2nd institution with the largest release of rural credit in the country. 75 Responsible Solutions 74 Sustainability Report 2021 ABRACAM. Certification is an instrument through which financial market professionals can prove your qualifications and knowledge of the legal, regulatory and operational framework that governs the area in which you operate. In addition to valuing the professional, it improves the institution's image and provides greater trust and credibility among its clients. In this context, our Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade professionals obtained the ABRACAM Seal, as well as Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. Payment methods The year 2021 was marked by recovery, especially with regard to our associates, considering that many of them had their activities affected by the pandemic in 2020. In this context, we worked hard to expand electronic payment methods and improve the efficiency of operations. Connected to our drivers, we seek to evolve with the digital transformation of payment methods, providing a better experience through digital transactions in secure environments. We also encourage the use of the Virtual Card, increasing the security of purchases online. In this context, we also continue to make digital invoices available. We have increased Near Field Communication (NFC) contactless transactions, enabling contactless payments. Currently, more than 50% of our card base already has Contactless technology. Consortium With the aim of increasing assets and contributing to improving the quality of life of members, we offer a series of consortium groups in the segments of automobiles, real estate, nautical, trucks, tractors and utilities, services and motorcycles. In 2021, our consortium operation completed 15 years and ended the year surpassing the R$20 billion mark in active credit portfolio, standing out as one of the largest operations in the country. Year-to-date, we closed 41% above budget. When compared to 2020, we grew 31% in sales and 33% in increment. Throughout 2021, we continued the Fidelidade para Todos plan, which offers consortium discounts of up to 20% to acquire new consortiums. During the year, 24,668 quotas and R$1.6 billion in credits were sold under the plan, representing 54.1% of sales in the period. We also launched the new consortium simulator on our website, where interested parties can simulate the contracting of consortia, according to the plan of their interest. The new format is more accessible and intuitive, making it easier for members to use. Another innovation was the implementation of a new adjustment format for new consortium groups in the Movable Goods segment, which will be adjusted by the Broad National Consumer Price Index (IPCA), accumulated over the last 12 months. With adjustment, we seek to find a balance between maintaining purchasing power and readjusting installments. Thinking about the socio-environmental impact of our products and services, we have the Sustainable Consortium, focused on the acquisition and construction of container houses and investment in eco-efficient solutions, such as water and sewage treatment, energy efficiency and wind and solar energy generation. Foreign trade In the Foreign Exchange area, in addition to carrying out financial operations and remittances, we mainly act in the intermediation and financing of international businesses. In the last two years, despite the pandemic, we have considerably expanded our operations as well as the base of members served. In total, we had an increase of 29.8% over the total of operations contracted in the previous year. Members of 104 cooperatives and 1,161 agencies were served. Among the operations carried out, cooperatives, associations and foundations were served, with 133 different institutions. To expand service in foreign exchange operations, we started relationships with more than 3,331 new members, of which 71% are legal entities and 29% individuals. Aiming to adhere to the best market practices, in June we obtained the Foreign Exchange Certification from the Brazilian Foreign Exchange Association – In total, we recorded a 60% growth in card revenue. We also launched a solution for toll payment (Tag de Passagem), bringing more convenience and replacing paper currency. By the end of the year, we had more than 37 thousand tags issued, with over 700 thousand toll passes made.77 Responsible Solutions 76 Sustainability Report 2021 We expanded the range of flags accepted in our card machines, enabling transactions across 49 national and international brands. As a result, we carried out more than 75 thousand new accreditations, an increase of 22% of the base. Furthermore, we reached the mark of R$24 billion invoiced in 2021, a value 53% higher than that invoiced in 2020, and we reached the record for advance payments made, with R$5.2 billion advanced in the period. Savings We closed the year 2021 with R$26 billion in savings, recording a 17% growth in the portfolio when compared to the previous year. Term deposit Term deposit products are fundamental to our business, as they contribute to maintaining our virtuous cycle, complying with the minimum liquidity of cooperatives and guaranteeing the growth of credit operations. In 2021, we reached the mark of R$68.9 billion in term deposits, with a growth of 21.6% in the portfolio.Agribusiness Credit Letter (LCA) In 2021, the portfolio of LCA reached more than R$6.6 billion, a significant growth of around 154%, reflecting the greater demand for fixed income products by investors, following the beginning of the cycle of rising basic interest rates in the economy. With this result, we have around 30 thousand members investing in LCA, representing an increase of 142%. The solution is an excellent alternative for those looking to combine security and good profitability, in addition to contributing to the development of their communities, as part of these resources are used to finance rural credit. Insurance Through our insurance operations, we generate peace of mind and financial security for millions of people, acting in a consultative manner from the implementation of the proposal to the handling of claims. We ended 2021 with more than 4.28 million policies in force. Our operation continued to grow more than the market, with a 19% increase in production, reaching R$2.2 billion. A Gross commission revenue for the operation increased by 25%, reaching R$493 million. Payments and receipts In relation to the Billing product, in 2021, we generated R$363.3 million in revenue and reached the mark of R$13.4 billion per month in volume of invoices paid in December. Considering the number of securities issued, we showed growth of 19.1% compared to last year, issuing 205.8 million bills. We also recorded a 19.4% growth in our user base. Already the The Supplier Payments product had R$168.3 billion moved, representing an increase of 50% compared to the previous year. In relation to the Payroll Product, we recorded R$27.3 billion in transacted volume in 2021, representing an increase of 20% when compared to 2020. The representation of associates in the payroll reached 42%. We also present an 8% increase in the number of INSS beneficiaries who became members this last year. This audience represents more than 600 thousand members, contributing a contribution margin of R$641.4 million in 2021. In general, payment services to suppliers and private and government payrolls saw a 63% growth in volumes transacted in comparison to 2020. Pix In 2021, the Central Bank made important advances towards consolidating the implementation of Instant Payments, focusing both on new solutions and also on security and stability in the ecosystem that allowed the expansion of use. Brings in new associates, expanding our impact on communities. Reduces the circulation of money, contributing to greater physical security for members. Reduces costs for Legal Entity members, impacting the sale of their products and services. Increases the availability of solutions for the member and, consequently, satisfaction. HOW PIX GENERATES VALUEIn December, one year after its launch, Pix already had a good following of our members, with more than R$180 billion transacted and 200 million transactions in the first 12 months of operation. The new payments arrangement is a strong ally in our objective of impacting communities, bringing more people into the cooperative world, making the population bankable and strengthening the local economy. Acceptance Acceptance solutions enable associates to develop their business by offering digital payment solutions to their customers. They also help members centralize their financial flow in our cooperatives, facilitating the offer of our other solutions. Following the evolution of the payment method market in 2021, we implemented Pix acceptance in our card machines and were also pioneers in launching the solution that enables the use of cell phones as a point of sale, with the functionality to receive payments.79 Responsible Solutions 78 Sustainability Report 2021 Green economy We know the power that our financial solutions have to support sustainable development and, therefore, we seek to identify opportunities to create and improve solutions with a sustainability vision, reinforcing our values ​​and positioning in the market. G4 FS7 / FS8 In this sense, we have a series of credit lines aligned with the so-called green economy, which focus on potential positive impacts for society and the environment. environment, resulting in improved human well-being and social equality, while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. In 2021, we allocated R$24.6 billion in credit aimed at the green economy. To carry out a survey of which financial solutions fall within this line, we used as a basis the methodology of Febraban's green taxonomy, which considers sectoral criteria and credit lines and programs. financing with benefits environmental and social, allowing greater standardization in measurements of the national financial system. G4 FS7 / FS8 Throughout 2020, Febraban carried out a review of the parameters and guidelines of the green economy taxonomy in conjunction with specialized consultancy on the topic and the support of the financial institutions involved in the process. Therefore, in 2021 we also reviewed our internal methodology aimed at measuring this data. G4 FS7 / FS8 According to the new taxonomy, the Financial solutions were discriminated between the amounts granted to sectors with high and moderate environmental and social contributions and the financing lines and programs with environmental and social benefits. In both calculations we consider the real effectiveness of the resource in enabling sustainable scenarios for our members. G4 FS7 / FS8Fundo Sicredi Ações Sustentáveis ​​ESG In 2021, we launched Sicredi FIC Ações Sustentáveis ​​ESG, our first equity fund with an ESG focus (environmental, social and governance, in its acronym in English), focused on companies, aligned with our sustainability strategy and that generate a positive impact on society, in addition to profitability for the associate. Through active management of our Asset, the Investment Fund is made up of shares from B3 companies that are references in good social, environmental and governance practices and is available to members via the app or directly at branches. Companies eligible for the fund have initiatives and actions aimed at preserving and revitalizing the environment, with projects aimed at the transition to a low-carbon economy and renewable energy, in addition to considering fair commercial and labor relations. Find out more about the Fund at the link: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/investimentos/fundos-investimentos/sicredi-acoes-sustentaveis-esg/ We facilitated more than R$ 1.05 billion in claims compensation, of which R$439 million in life insurance, R$188 million in car insurance and R$422 million in general insurance. Almost R$6.5 million was also paid to members drawn in Insurance products. In 2021, we implemented the Sicredi Claims Center, which operates 24 hours, 7 days a week, to file claims or assist members. The channel has an exclusive 0800 number, WhatsApp support and a system available so that agencies and cooperatives can monitor claims. During this period, We made more than 100,000 active and reactive calls and more than 20,000 services via WhatsApp, with more than 8,000 claims handled. Private Pension Through our pension products, we support members in their search for a financially stable future. At the end of 2021, we reached the mark of R$2.14 billion in reservations, a growth of 32% compared to 2020. With a focus on encouraging this growth and improving the member experience, we are structuring a new Private Pension self-service portal that should be launched in 2022. Among the main advantages of the new platform are a more autonomous experience for members, simulation aimed at hiring and 24-hour service. Since 2020, we have adopted document processing via email with the insurance company Icatu, replacing the traditional flow of sending physical documents. In 2021 we managed to evolve in this process and adopted definitive flow via email. From this action, we reduced around 300 thousand impressions per year in the cooperatives, in addition to reducing the use of “Vai e Vem” plastics. In this way, in addition to minimizing the risk of document loss, we reduce the environmental impact of the operation. Investment funds Our members can diversify their investments through investment funds managed in our Asset or in carefully selected business partners. For recommend the most suitable products for your investor profile, we apply a questionnaire that aims to understand your risk appetite. With the aim of democratizing and bringing investment to more people, some investment funds, depending on their profile, have the option of a minimum initial contribution starting at R$1.00. In 2021, we launched eight new investment funds, four of which are administered and managed by our Asset. We ended the year with more than 96 thousand shareholders in our investment funds, an increase of 41% compared to 2020. In terms of financial volume, in December we had more than 5.6 billion in funds, a growth of 19% compared to the previous year.81 Solutions Responsible 80 Sustainability Report 2021 Sustainable finance In 2021, we structured the Structured Operations and Sustainable Finance area, with the aim of developing the topic within Sicredi and intensifying fundraising for credit aligned with our values ​​and sustainability strategy, through the issuance of bonds linked to social and environmental aspects. For 2022, we are developing a document with Sustainability Guidelines for the topic of Sustainable Finance. GRI 103-2 Throughout the year, we evolved in identifying socio-environmental opportunities in our portfolio, reinforcing processes, metrics and consolidating interactions with business partners. We have the support of technical assistance, in partnership with IDB Invest together with an international consultancy specializing in socio-environmental projects, to structure strategies and tools that can support the expansion of operations in sustainable finance, in line with market demands. . G4 FS5One of the highlights among the products aligned with the green economy is financing for solar energy, through which members can obtain credit for acquire equipment and technology to capture solar energy and generate clean electrical energy in their homes, businesses and rural properties. We had a relevant evolution in this portfolio in 2021, granting R$3.3 billion in credit, with 52.5 thousand operations, a growth of more than 90% compared to 2020. G4 FS7 / FS8 FINANCING FOR SOLAR ENERGY 11.73, 3 2019 2020 2021+ 94% PDI – Solar Energy Integrators Program The Solar Energy Development Program Solar Energy Integrators (PDI) is an initiative promoted, since 2019, by Sicredi Pioneira in partnership with Sebrae/RS and the University of Caxias do Sul (UCS). The program aims to generate sustainable and perennial development of the solar energy chain through the qualification and professionalization of the cooperative's partner integrators and service providers. Furthermore, the program brings benefits to the development of the sector itself, with direct investment in participating companies that provide technology in the region. In total, there are already more than 500 approved partners. During 2021, more than R$150 million in new credits were granted and more than 3,100 new projects developed by the program.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL BENEFITS (R$ THOUSANDS) 2019 2020 2021 Programs/lines of financing with socio-environmental benefits Female agriculture 16,405.3 18,242.3 17,538.3 Low Carbon Agriculture 38 8 ,707.9 4,078,888.8 6,694,551.8 Agroecology and Organic Agriculture 3,561.2 6,803.1 7,68 8, 8 Good agricultural practices 5,384,604.9 6,865,468.9 9,246,667.1 Renewable Energy and Environmental Sustainability1,077. 815 .1 2,356,126.5 4,531,130.8 Sectors with high and moderate environmental and social contributions High Contribution (Environmental) 82,552.6 118,490.0 194,802.6 High Contribution (Social + Environmental) 38,489.3 70,138.5 129,868 .8 High Contribution (Social) 1,180,456.0 1,721,204.0 2,152,188.1 Moderate Contribution (Environmental) 4 47,513.1 711,407, 8 1,088,020.1 Moderate Contribution (Social + Environmental 274,139.2 414,130.9 492,423.9 Moderate Contribution (Social) 13,399.2 19,477.5 27,159.7 Total 8,907. 644, 0 16,380,378.3 24,582,040.1 *In 2021, we updated the names and sectors used for lines, programs and sectors following the taxonomic update carried out by Febraban and internal guidelines. To survey the values ​​allocated to sectors with high and moderate environmental contribution and social, according to their degree of relevance, international references for classifying sustainable activities were observed, such as the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) taxonomies, the European Union (EU) Taxonomy and the Social Bond Principles (SBP). Within the high sector contribution section, we have classified activities such as certified seed production, planted forests and health and education services. In the section with moderate sectoral contribution, we have activities such as waste management, material recovery and water treatment. G4 FS7 / FS8For the values ​​of financing lines/programs with environmental and social benefits, credit products and agricultural production systems identified with green characteristics were observed. We classify openings that can help in understanding some of the most evident benefits of our portfolio, largely focused on the areas of agriculture and energy. For the next reports, we intend to evolve in the openings used in these surveys, combining measurements with Sicredi's sustainability and business development strategies. G4 FS7 / FS883 Responsible Solutions 82 Sustainability Report 2021 Promote financial education Our financial education initiatives expand the capacity of cooperatives to positively impact our members and the communities where we are present. GRI 103-1 By Through them, we encourage conscious attitudes in the use of our products and services, offering guidance and advice so that people can make considered choices, aligned with their well-being, with autonomy, independence and planning. GRI 103-2 We thus encourage entrepreneurship and responsibility in business management and support small businesses in their process of establishing themselves in the market. GRI 103-2 The Sicredi Foundation has a structure exclusively to conduct the topic, and is responsible for structuring, developing and implementing our financial education strategy. The centrals and cooperatives, through their cooperative development areas, are responsible for developing the Program and regional and local actions. GRI 103-2 In 2021, another stage of the Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis program was completed (phase 2), providing the opportunity for our centers and cooperatives to mobilize to develop - together with associates, employees and communities - various financial education actions. In addition to the delivery of new materials (learn more on page 84), comic books were distributed and videos from Turma da Mônica were broadcast (as a result of the partnership with Mauricio de Sousa Produções), and other complementary content was also used. In total, including ENEF Week, we promoted 7,682 actions that together raised awareness among more than 19 million people among different audiences covered by the Program. SICREDI SR 01732.7 thousand Turma da Mônica comic books distributed Around 19 million people impacted 7,682 Actions aimed at members and communities FINANCIAL EDUCATION ACTIONS Financial education action in online format. Fundraising for women entrepreneurs In addition to fundraising aimed at solar energy, we raised US$80 million (around R$438 million) destined to finance micro, small and medium-sized Brazilian companies led by women. 2X Challenge – Finance for Women Through the partnership to finance micro, small and medium-sized companies led by women, we started to contribute to the 2X Challenge – Finance for Women. This is a global challenge launched by G7 development financial institutions that aims to allocate resources to generating entrepreneurship and leadership opportunities for women in emerging countries. The global challenge seeks to allocate more than US$15 billion in new financing to women entrepreneurs between 2021 and 2022. Funding for solar energy To meet the growing demand for credit for the installation of photovoltaic energy systems (solar energy), we signed a partnership agreement for funding with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the Bank Group Worldwide, to stimulate solar energy projects. The international credit line is US$120 million (around R$600 million) and will finance members' solar energy projects of the institution throughout Brazil. This is the first operation of a Brazilian cooperative financial institution to receive certification issued by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), an international organization that works to promote investments in the low-carbon economy, establishing best practices for the market in terms of environmental integrity of products. of green economy. The operation is also aligned with the Green Loan Principles (GLP), attesting that the projects offer clear and verifiable environmental benefits and that the evaluation and selection processes, as well as resource management and monitoring, follow international standards. It is also the first IFC operation for a Brazilian institution with GLP certification. The agreement was signed with DEG, a German financial development institution, a subsidiary of the German Development Bank (KFW) and the French development agency PROPARCO, a subsidiary of the Bank of Development French (AFD), both development financial institutions. In this case, it is a loan with a social bias, aimed at micro, small and medium-sized companies and including the gender factor as a criterion for the use of resources. The financing will be allocated to those companies with annual revenue of up to R$6 million and which have women as owners or partners holding more than 50% of the share capital. 85 Responsible Solutions 84 Sustainability Report 2021 Additionally, We developed the COOPS Method, a financial transformation method connected to our cooperative essence. This is the financial transformation method of the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, designed with the participation of centrals and cooperatives, to help people with the step-by-step process for building sustainable financial habits. G4 FS16 Find out more about the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis at the link: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/napontadolapis/Conscientizar: content and examples to raise awareness;Observe: reflections to identify behaviors and motivations;Organize: exercises to strengthen good behaviors and correct the course of past actions;Prepare: definitions that guide plans and goals that improve financial life;Support: reinforcement for the adoption of healthy financial habits.C O O P S Journey of Financial Education in Schools In 2021, we launched the Journey of Financial Education in Schools, complete training for teachers that encourages their autonomy to work on financial education in the classroom*, bringing an active and interdisciplinary pedagogical proposal that connects with the context and reality of each school community. Jornada has several original pedagogical materials, developed by experts, and has pedagogical advisors who are partners of the cooperatives. These professionals are qualified by Sicredi to, together with the teams, the development of cooperativism, implementing the Journey in schools and providing pedagogical support to educators throughout their training. *Financial education became mandatory in schools from 2020, in compliance with the National Common Curricular Base (BNCC, 2018) Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis is our systemic financial education program. Its purpose is to “cooperate towards a sustainable financial life” and plays the role of developing and strengthen the theme in our business and in society. G4 FS16 Based on Economic Psychology and Behavioral Economics, it helps people to become aware of their relationship with money and to develop habits and attitudes that contribute to a sustainable financial life. GRI 103-2 PILLARS OF THE COOPERATION PROGRAM AT THE TIP OF THE PERMANENT PENCIL Continuous application of actions and always evolving SYSTEM Collaborative construction so that it belongs to everyone INNOVATIVE Based in behavioral sciences In 2021, we built Phase 2 of the Program, in which we focused our efforts on three key audiences: Associates: we developed workshops that support behavior change through reflections, content pills and practical exercises. Employees: we built a workshop to raise awareness among our internal audience, encouraging the sharing of stories and knowledge. Schools: we built complete training for teachers, to support them in the task of developing financial education integrated into the school curriculum (learn more on the next page).87 Responsible Solutions 86 Sustainability Report 2021 We have a centralized integrated risk management structure, which serves all entities linked to the System, from the Bank Sicredi Cooperative to central offices and cooperatives. GRI 103-1/ 102-15 Based on the lines of defense model, risk teams act independently from the areas of business and internal audit, dedicated to identifying, controlling and mitigating factors that could compromise the sustainability of the business in the short, medium and long term, contributing to maintaining our solidity and confidence. GRI 102-15 We consider in our risk management process: • Strategic risks; • Financial risks: -credit; -market; -liquidity; -capital management; -of variation in interest rates for banking portfolio instruments (IRRBB); and -socio-environmental; • Non-financial risks: -operational; -business continuity; -information security; and -of compliance. Risks are assessed for each new action that could potentially increase its impact on our results, assets and liquidity, considering, whenever possible, stress scenarios and mitigating measures. Risk management Its management includes monitoring indicators and monthly reporting to the committees that support the Board of Sicredipar's Administration in deliberations related to risk management policies and guidelines and the prudential limits to be observed. GRI 102-15 The Board has the support of the Risks and Compliance Committee to identify risks and opportunities related to the topics discussed. Thus, we guarantee the effectiveness of the process, evaluating the most comprehensive technical aspects of the risks and reporting or indicating actions to the Board for deliberations. specific. GRI 102-15 Our policies and standards comply with legal requirements and market practices and are reviewed annually, with the aim of maintaining the consistency of guidelines, rules and procedures. GRI 102-15 The Risk Appetite Statement (or RAS) is a systemic document that aligns our appetite with different types of risks, defines alerts and limits, in addition to facilitating the dissemination of the risk management culture. risks in the System. GRI 102-29 /102-30/ 102-31 Our appetite for risk is based on our strategic vision. All institutions that make up the System must follow the RAS and all actions contained in the strategic planning must be compatible with the risk appetite described in the document. GRI 102-29/ 102-30/ 102-31Ensuring integrated risk management National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week) We participated in the 8th edition of the National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week), an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF). During the period, we intensified our actions focused on the topic across the country, seeking to expand the impact on people and communities. GRI 103-3 / G4 FS16 During this year's ENEF Week, we systematically promoted the live “Sustainable Financial Life”, in which we addressed people's relationship with money, with practical tips on how behaviors can be developed that help achieve a more sustainable financial life. We also promoted the live “Turma da Mônica and Financial Education”, with the aim of encouraging a light and fun conversation about financial education with children. In total, we carried out 3,033 face-to-face and digital actions during ENEF Week, impacting around 19 million people. In addition, the Actions and Events Registration Tool was delivered to the cooperatives, which began to be used to record all education financial situation, whether they were carried out during ENEF Week or throughout the year. As a result, the registration of ENEF Week actions with Bacen began to be carried out by the Sicredi Foundation, which extracts the data from the new tool and then exports the data to the website https://weekenef.gov.br/. G4 FS16 ACTIONS OF THE WEEK ENEF 2019 2020 2021 Actions 5,574 1,408 3,033 Due to the coronavirus pandemic, we had a considerable impact on our actions in 2020. This year, with the advancement of vaccination of population and the easing of health restrictions, we once again intensified efforts in financial education actions, especially during ENEF Week.89 Responsible Solutions 88 Sustainability Report 2021 In conjunction with our Socio-Environmental Risk Management Standard, it establishes the guidelines and consolidates the rules applicable to associates whose activities are exposed to social, environmental or climate risks and relevant proportionality in our portfolio. G4 FS1 The procedures established in the documents guide the stages of the credit cycle, as well as the creation and maintenance of our financial services, and are guided by the principles established by the Central Bank. G4 FS1 In 2021, we once again had the opportunity to strengthen our relationship with bodies and institutions involved with the topic. In addition, we promote virtual meetings with cooperative and central teams to clarify information about updates to the Socio-environmental Risk Management Policy and Standard, applicable regulations, risk management processes and good socio-environmental practices, market movements, Rural Environmental Registry and restricted areas, among others. G4 FS1 Demonstrating the increasing importance of the topic, we carried out several reports, technical discussions and cooperation agreements with business partners, such as with IDB Invest, the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG) and the Société de Promotion et de Participation pour la Coopération Economique (PROPARCO). In these dialogues, we share data, analysis and advances in socio-environmental risk management procedures, defining plans and actions to be carried out to improve internal processes related to the topic. G4 FS5 Agenda BC# - Sustainability Pillar: Throughout 2021, the Central Bank held three public consultations in order to understand how institutions deal with the issue of social, environmental and climate risk. As a result, in September it published a standard that amends resolution 4,557 and provides for the strengthening of the rules for managing these risks, including the standardization of disclosure, by financial institutions, of their information on the topic. Along with the standard, the Central Bank published its first Social Risks and Opportunities Report, Environmental and Climate, presenting actions in the sustainability dimension of the BC# Agenda, which brings together its strategy for promoting the country's financial stability. In 2021, we carried out an internal communication campaign for integrated risk management with the theme “Be a Guardian of our business. Practice Risk Management, find out more on page 51. Financial security Our operations take place in an integrated manner, with cooperatives supporting each other. With this network of support, we offer members a series of instruments that guarantee security and reliability for their investments. We rely on the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop), for example, with the aim of guaranteeing deposits and providing financial assistance to cooperative financial institutions with possible liquidity difficulties. We work with Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, funds made up of contributions from our cooperatives, reimbursements and asset recovery, which has the function of ensuring compliance with financial obligations and supporting cooperative development actions. The security of members' investments is attested by the main credit risk rating agencies in the world, which guaranteed Sicredi the following ratings on a national scale: Social, environmental and climate risk Fitch Ratings: AA(bra) Moody's Local: AA+ .br Standard & Poor's: brAAA Moody's: Ba2 Standard & Poor's: BB-O Financing activities in sectors exposed to social, environmental and climate impacts can generate financial losses and damage our reputation. Therefore, we have detailed mechanisms to mitigate the risks of these operations, as well as the specific assessment of their impacts on the business and the communities in which we operate. GRI 103-2 The strategy regarding the topic of socio-environmental risk is the responsibility of SicrediPar's Board of Directors and the structure for the monitoring and adequate management of the topic, which supports all Sicredi entities, is centralized at Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, subordinate to the Executive Risk Directorate. G4 FS2 The systemic management of the topic is the responsibility of the Credit and Socio-Environmental Risk Superintendence, which reports to the Executive Risk Directorate. In central plants, the responsibility for managing socio-environmental risks lies with the Supervisory Board and in cooperatives, it is with the Management Board. Operations. GRI 102-11 / 103-2 Our Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy complies with Resolutions 4,327 and 4,557, approved by the National Monetary Council and published by the Central Bank of Brazil, remaining the main driver of our socio-environmental management. The Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy is available to the public here: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/sobre-nos/sistência/RATINGS NATIONAL SCALE RATINGS GLOBAL SCALE91 Solutions Those Responsible 90 Sustainability Report 2021 Socio-environmental screening We evaluate the requested credit proposals and the areas to be benefited, when existing, through documentation and elements that support our decision. G4 FS2 We systemically block products with greater exposure to socio-environmental risk for members and their respective economic groups included in the official lists of environmental embargoes published by the Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Environment (IBAMA) and the Chico Mendes Institute for Biodiversity Preservation (ICMBio). G4 FS2 These cases are subjected to a specialized assessment, which can generate an opinion for the continuity of the credit granting flow in situations where the area to be benefited is not the location subject to the embargo and where socio-environmental risks are mitigated , observing the reservations and conditions deemed necessary. G4 FS2 In 2021, we carried out 704 screenings, 8.66% of which were carried out on legal entity (PJ) members. G4 FS10 The member remains blocked while on the official lists and this screening is carried out with each new request for a product with greater exposure to socio-environmental risk. G4 FS2 Geoprocessing We use geoprocessing systems to evaluate areas of greatest environmental risk in our rural credit operations, in line with the obligation to capture and send coordinates established by Central bank. G4 FS2 Based on the geodetic coordinates of the area to benefit from financing, as well as those accepted as collateral, we automatically validate whether there is an overlap with risk areas officially disclosed by the responsible environmental bodies. G4 FS2In this pre-concession validation, a “restriction” message is issued when overlaps with APAs (Environmental Preservation Areas) and ARIEs (Areas of Relevant Ecological Interest) are identified, or a message of “prohibition” when overlaps with indigenous lands, quilombola lands, embargoed areas or full-use conservation units are identified, preventing the continuity of financing in these cases. G4 FS2 Post-concession monitoring After the concession, the benefited areas continue to be monitored throughout the entire useful life of the operation, in order to verify their regularity. This initiative expanded the reach of our processes, establishing a new level of mitigation of socio-environmental risks, limiting damage and unwanted exposure in areas of greater risk. G4 FS2 Monitoring risk appetite (RAS) and carrying out stress tests We establish metrics and monitor our credit portfolio, at a regional and systemic level, in order to monitor and limit our exposure to risks. In addition, we carry out stress tests in which we simulate scenarios of exposure to different types of risks to understand how they interact with each other and can impact our main indicators. G4 FS2 Quantitative tools for managing portfolio risks In 2021, we made available to cooperatives quantitative management tools based on mechanisms that measure aspects related to the social, environmental and climate risks of the portfolio and counterparties, allowing their classification and analysis. In 2022, seeking to increasingly act across the entire risk management cycle Risk Practices Social, Environmental and Climate All of our credit, consortium and exchange contracts have a socio-environmental responsibility clause, with provisions for fines and early settlement of operations in the event of non-compliance with contractual items that establish socio-environmental commitments. G4 FS3 The assessment of early settlement in cases of non-compliance is carried out by the Board of Directors of the respective cooperative, through monitoring provided by the area centralized RSA management. G4 FS3 We apply social, environmental and climate risk checks in accordance with the importance principles of our portfolio. To this end, the services are segmented into certain levels of verification and analysis, according to their classification in relation to exposure to risks, seeking an effective coverage of credit, consortium and foreign currency operations. G4 FS2 Financing activities in sectors most exposed to socio-environmental impacts, such as agriculture and livestock, require more detailed risk mitigation mechanisms. G4 FS2 Find out below about the social, environmental and climate risk practices adopted in our operation: Social and environmental self-declaration questionnaires In our credit granting process, we apply self-declaration questionnaires to associates whose activities have greater exposure to risks and value, functioning as a flag of possible socio-environmental problems or irregularities. Through a qualitative evaluation of the questionnaire, it is used in decision-making on the member's credit operations. G4 FS2In line with the social, environmental and climate agenda, in 2021 we began implementing questionnaires to grant credit to individuals in agribusiness and legal entities in the health sector. Thus, throughout the year we had 41,516 questionnaires in force, of which 60.98% were applied to legal entity (PJ) members, a number significantly higher than the previous year. G4 FS10 Prohibited and not recommended activities We conduct monthly monitoring of compliance with the socio-environmental clauses of our contract based on official public information from our geoprocessed operations, in order to validate whether the area benefiting from financing remains in good standing. We also monitor associates with signs of exposure to socio-environmental risks, such as involvement with slave labor and environmental embargoes. G4 FS3 We conduct checks that seek to assess member involvement in non-recommended activities, such as the extraction or sale of wood from native forests, and monitor the behavior of the portfolio related to high exposure activities, such as coal mining. Furthermore, we verified the involvement of associates in prohibited activities, such as, for example, slave labor. We carry out the blocking system that prevents any granting of credit to individuals and legal entities and their respective economic groups registered in the register of employers who subjected workers to conditions similar to slavery, published by the Secretariat of Labor and Ministry of Economy.93 Responsible Solutions 92 Sustainability Report 2021 In the internal reinforcement of processes, around 1,693 multipliers were trained in central and cooperatives, with the aim of disseminate and improve adopted practices. The centralized Socio-Environmental Risk management team intensified its specializations on the topic through courses, participation in lectures, congresses, forums, workshops and working groups with other financial institutions, aiming at qualification and exchange of experiences. G4 FS4 Climate risks The implications and risks resulting from climate change have become increasingly relevant in regulation and structuring risk controls for financial institutions. In order to expand and integrate our assessments of these risks, in our new Sustainability Policy, we commit to following the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). GRI 102-12 Throughout 2021, we continued to participate in the discussions of the working group of the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban) aimed at supporting institutions on the topic. Among the techniques discussed in the forum and which is already being applied in internal surveys and analyses, is the green taxonomy, a standard sector classification technique that measures exposure to climate risks in our credit portfolio, based on TCFD recommendations. GRI 201-2 This sectoral exposure variable to climate risks is informed in our credit mat analysis report and is considered in the modeling of socio-environmental risk measurement for our associates. GRI 201-2 Seeking to ensure legal certainty on the topic, we introduced the item climate change into our standard socio-environmental responsibility clause, highlighting the importance of adopting control practices and compliance with applicable legislation. GRI 201-2 In addition, we are developing a stress test to evaluate different climate risk scenarios for the institution, allowing a quantitative measurement of these implications and complementing the already applied to socio-environmental risk. GRI 201-2 In conjunction with the actions of the working group and the market, the evolution of impact controls due to climate change will be a priority on next year's agenda, assisting in compatible risk management and mitigation by Sicredi. GRI 201-2 socio-environmental, these topics will be treated as a priority in improving the identification of opportunities, impacts and risks for the System. G4 FS2 Interlocution with bodies environmental organizations and business partners We expanded dialogue with environmental agencies through integration actions, aiming to disseminate regularization, awareness and risk mitigation practices. Likewise, we strengthen relationships with business partners, increasing dialogue regarding socio-environmental risk mitigation practices, monitoring data and assessment methodologies. G4 FS2 We also participate in studies and development of specific methodology recording losses resulting from socio-environmental damages in the Febraban Working Group, allowing greater monitoring of the impacts of the issue on associates and operations. G4 FS2 Assessment of Social and Environmental Risk procedures The implementation of these actions and their results are reported and discussed in the competent forums, including the Sustainability, Risk and Compliance Committees. The Technical Risk Committee evaluates and positions actions and the creation and maintenance of products regarding the topic of socio-environmental risk, supporting the strategic decisions established by the SicrediPar Board of Directors. G4 FS2 The Internal Audit area conducts the annual process of evaluating the effective adequacy of the procedures assumed in the regulations. In September, the internal audit work on RSA management was completed, based on the guidelines and rules established in the new Socio-Environmental and Environmental Risk Management Policy. in the Socio-Environmental Risk Management Standard. G4 FS9 Since 2016, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), our business partner, has carried out annual supervision of the process through the Universal Banks Report and the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban), through its Compliance Report, also carries out the annual monitoring of compliance with SARB14 self-regulation. In 2021, DEG Invest & Proparco conducted a due diligence process with Sicredi, in which our socio-environmental risk management practices were analyzed and approved, identifying opportunities for progress to be made throughout 2022. G4 FS9 Furthermore, since 2016, the Central Bank of Brazil has annually assessed the implementation of Resolution 4,327/14 and the application of socio-environmental practices through an electronic questionnaire. G4 FS9 Training in social, environmental and climate risks Through a series of training focused on social, environmental and climate risks climate issues, we promote the incorporation and constantly improve the criteria for managing socio-environmental risk. GRI 103-3 Among the training, we highlight the certification on Socio-Environmental Risks and Opportunities (distance mode), mandatory for all System employees, totaling 29,037 participants in 2021. G4 FS495 Responsible Solutions 94 Sustainability Report 2021 TOTAL EMISSIONS GREENHOUSE GASES (GHG) GRI 103-3 / 305-1 / 305-2 / 305-3 / 305-4 / SICREDI SR06 Source of emissions Total emissions (tCO2e) Percentage Scope 1 7,396.24 35.84% Fugitive 6,041.05 29.27% ​​Direct Mobile Combustion 1,180.05 5.72% Stationary Combustion 165.88 0.80% Effluents 9.25 0.04% Scope 2 (location approach) 8,571.23 - Purchased Electricity 8,571.23 - Scope 2 (purchase choice approach) 8,024.82 38.89 % Electricity Purchased 8,024.82 38.89% Scope 3 5,215.01 25.27% Business trips 1,427.38 6.92% Transport and distribution (upstream) 2,693.40 13.05% Employee displacement 50.19 0.24% Waste generated in operations 1,044.05 5.06% Total (tCO2e)1 - (Purchase Choice Approach)320,636.07 100% Total (tCO2e)1 - (Location Approach) 21,182.48 - Emissions intensity (tCO2e/employee)20.604684441 - GHG emissions management Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions management strategy has been evolving each year, contributing to the agenda to combat climate change. We annually prepare the Systemic GHG Emissions Inventory, which records representative emissions from all our cooperatives. Through it, we can develop initiatives to reduce and neutralize the impact of our operations. Our Inventory is calculated according to the GHG Protocol (Greenhouse Gas Protocol) methodology. In 2021, we renewed our adherence to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and published, on the Public Emissions Registry Platform, our 2020 GHG Emissions Inventory, which was recognized with the Gold Seal, the highest level of qualification for corporate emissions inventories. GRI 102-12 Furthermore, in 2021, our cooperatives avoided the emission of 580 tCO2e through self-generation of solar energy. The initiative was reported by 144 units, including agencies and administrative headquarters. 1 The percentages were calculated based on total emissions following the purchasing choice approach in Scope 2. Therefore, no we report the percentages referring to Scope 2 according to the location approach. 2 Calculated following the energy purchasing choice approach. ³ The purchasing choice approach takes into account the purchase of renewable energy from the free market by the CAS headquarters. Promoting eco-efficient management We consider that eco-efficient management is one that seeks to achieve maximum efficiency in the use of resources — material and natural —, with minimal adverse impact on the environment and with generating positive impact. GRI 103-1 /103-2 Our cooperatives develop local initiatives, such as branches and headquarters built with sustainability attributes, in addition to energy efficiency initiatives and self-generation projects for electricity from solar sources. In 2022, we will structure an Eco-efficiency Program , which will guide the topic in a systemic way, expanding the positive impact of the initiatives. The management of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions is carried out in a systemic, including a complete diagnosis of operations through the GHG Inventory and the annual neutralization of total emissions calculated in the inventory. Photovoltaic Plant – Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo, headquartered in the city of Santa Cruz do Sul/RS and linked to Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, invested in its own photovoltaic plant, generating 100% clean and renewable energy for the new administrative headquarters and for the 15 agencies of the Cooperative. In addition The plant contributes to reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions associated with the purchase of energy from the Cooperative. With an investment of R$2.5 million, the photovoltaic generation complex consists of 1,238 modules and an installed power of 544,720 kWp. This energy generation capacity is sufficient to supply all Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo branches, with the exception of Vale Verde, which has its own photovoltaic energy microgeneration. 97 Responsible Solutions 96 Sustainability Report 2021 Working with suppliers and partners with sustainable management Engaging suppliers for Sustainability We seek to extend our concerns and advances regarding sustainability to the systemic supply chain, encouraging them to adopt the best social and environmental practices. GRI 103-1/ 103-2 Relationships with suppliers are guided by the Internal Corporate Purchasing Standard. The guideline indicates that suppliers must, preferably, be associated with one of our cooperatives, in order to generate more value to our business chain. We also prioritize suppliers from the communities where we are present, as part of the strategy to contribute to local development. The purchasing standard guides the hiring and management of suppliers that will be used by the System. GRI 102-9 Our main suppliers deliver everything from corporate supplies to more complex service solutions, located throughout the national territory. The main suppliers responsible for threshold solutions to the process are based in the South, Southeast and North regions. GRI 102-9 In 2021, we hired 84.5 thousand suppliers, to which we paid a total of R$6.1 billion. GRI 103-3 / 102-9 Our purchasing decisions and contracting of goods and services must comply with the socio-environmental criteria defined in the Sustainability Policy, generating economic results (better cost- benefit) while respecting the environment and improving the quality of life of the people with whom they interact. GRI 102-9 To ensure that suppliers are aligned with our values, we include anti-corruption, human rights and environmental clauses in our contracts, addressing topics such as child and slave labor. We recommend that cooperatives use these same standardized clauses in their local purchases. In this sense, of the 265 new suppliers hired in 2021, around 77.36% had sustainability clauses included in their contracts, committing to responsible action. GRI 103-3 / 308-1 / 308-2 / 414-1 We currently do not have a complete process for evaluating suppliers based on socio-environmental criteria, but we are progressing in the development of a third-party management project. Throughout 2021, we evaluated a management flow in which we carried out supplier assessments based on compliance, credit, information security and socio-environmental criteria, among others, to mitigate risks in the operation. We are defining the process to understand which suppliers to apply the questionnaire to and how to monitor their actions GRI 102-10 / 308-2 With the implementation of this process, we will monitor partners periodically, as relevant, and create action plans when necessary. In 2021, the project was conducted in a pilot phase, with 10 suppliers considered relevant. GRI 308-2Neutralization In 2021, we neutralized the more than 21 thousand tons of GHG calculated in our 2020 Emissions Inventory. The neutralization of 100% of our emissions was done through support for five carbon credit projects, one in each region of Brazil. We seek to choose projects close to the communities where we operate, generating local sustainable development. SICREDI SR03 All projects have a high standard of certification and include social, environmental and economic benefits, contributing to the development of regions. Furthermore, the chosen projects contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Composting Project: aimed at supporting 13 families of small rural pig producers in various locations in Santa Catarina, it includes carbon credits for composting pig farming waste. The initiative presents improvements in production processes, provides income diversification for local producers, protection of water and soil resources and new markets for organic compounds. Bandeirantes Landfill Project: works with the generation of renewable electrical energy through the collection of biogas from a landfill in the city of São Paulo, with a focus on improving air quality. It minimizes risks of groundwater contamination, enables the recovery of degraded land and generates employment and income for local communities. Agrocortex Project: in the states of Acre and Amazonas, it is aimed at carbon credits for forest conservation in the Amazon. It aims to conserve more than 186 thousand hectares of the Amazon biome, protect endangered species of fauna and flora, sustainable forest management, generate alternative sources of income for the local community and encourage non-timber forest product cooperatives. Buenos Aires Project: located in the municipality of Buenos Aires, in Pernambuco, the The project is aimed at replacing native firewood as fuel with renewable biomass in a ceramics factory. The project generates investment in education for the local community, support for culture and leisure in the community and protection of the Caatinga Biome. Reunidas Project: in Cristalândia, Tocantins, the project also replaces firewood as fuel with renewable biomass in a ceramics factory, protecting the Cerrado Biome. Among its benefits are the improvement in working conditions and social inclusion through opportunities for the local community. Find out more through the link: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/sobre-nos/noticias/sicredi-neutraliza-emissoes-de-gases-de-efeito-estufa/ODS related:04Chapter Local Development Promote transformation positive results in the locations where we are present. Focus Themes: »Contribute to the development of communities »Promote the development of people »Foster the local economy »Promote financial inclusion Pillars: »Social and Economic101 Local development 100 Sustainability Report 2021 Promote the local economy The presence of a cooperative in a community generates income and prosperity for its inhabitants. Our cooperatives promote the local economy by expanding access to financial services for the local population, supporting the development of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in addition to distributing results among members. We also prioritize hiring local suppliers and encourage business among associates. GRI 103-1 / 102-16 From the second half of 2021, we began to carry out credit operations under the National Support Program for Micro and Small Businesses (Pronampe) on a permanent basis, aiming to support micro and small companies with capital turnover and growth of your business. This year, 28,000 operations were contracted and we granted around R$1.8 billion. In 2021, we began operating an agreement with the Ministry of Health that seeks to facilitate access to credit based on receivables arising from services provided to the Unified Health System (SUS) by our associated medical clinics and hospitals. This is a long-standing demand from Cooperatives, especially those linked to the health segment. Initially, agreements were signed with Sicredi Campos Gerais and Sicredi Recife, and we are currently in the phase of obtaining the margin consignable to each member. In the future, it may be extended to other interested Cooperatives. In 2021, the total spent on local suppliers was R$850.7 million, representing 13.8% of our spending on suppliers in the year, an amount that directly feeds the local economy. This year, we adjusted the way we cross-reference data to calculate the indicator, which prevents comparisons with previous years. According to the new criteria, to define whether the supplier is local, he needs to be MEI or Simples Nacional and be located in a city covered by one of our cooperatives. GRI 102-49 / 204-1 STATEMENT OF VALUE ADDED (DVA) (R$ THOUSANDS) GRI 103-3 / 201-1 2019 2020 2021 Economic value generated (revenue) 13,614,434 13,714,352 18,413,759 Economic value distributed 10,883 .786 10,581,438 13,910,189 Operating costs 7,052. 857 6,624,848 8,864,740 Salaries and employee benefits 2,691,830 2,905,813 3,806,847 Payments to capital providers 373,784 246,116 338,031 Payments to government 758,023 793,935 893,353 Community investments 7,292 10,726 7,218 Retained economic value* 2,730,648 3,132,914 4,503,570 * Direct economic value generated minus economic value distributed.Also followed We are evolving the marketplace theme. Over the past few years, the Sicredi Conecta app has allowed us to support the local economy, enabling new businesses and adding income and development to communities. In order to further advance the topic, the application was discontinued in September 2021 and will give way to new solutions to offer better experiences, convenience and new opportunities to members. Our cooperatives also promote the economy of the communities by allocating part of the results obtained during the year. In the meetings that took place in 2021, we defined the distribution of results for the year 2020. GRI 103-2 In 2021, R$853 million were distributed to members based on the assembly's decision, representing 83.1% of the total R$1,191 million. GRI 103-3 SICREDI DL02I cooperate with the local economy Through the I Cooperate with the Local Economy movement, we bring together civil society, local entities, press vehicles and public authorities to strengthen small traders and invite people to consume locally, making the economy spin. We believe that cooperating with the local economy yields a better world. The growth of the regions is one of our commitments. As a cooperative financial institution, we reinvest resources in the form of credit for members, entrepreneurs, rural producers and social projects. The I Cooperate with the Local Economy initiative reinforces this, supporting people and generating a positive impact in the regions. 103 Local development 102 Sustainability Report 2021 Promote financial inclusion Our System is made up of a network of cooperatives present in all regions of the country, from large metropolises to small and rural municipalities. We operate in cities where other financial institutions are not usually present, bringing financial inclusion to a population that would otherwise not have access to these services locally. GRI 103-2 We thus promote the financial inclusion of individuals and legal entities, inserting them into the financial system and providing broad access to financial solutions and not financial. In this way, we guarantee the economic participation of members, adding income and contributing to improving their quality of life. GRI 103-2 In 2021, we had cooperatives in 230 municipalities where we were the only financial institution1 with a physical presence. Of these, 69% are located in the southern region of the country. Our presence generates a positive impact in these places, in addition to promoting the local economy. MUNICIPALITIES WHERE WE ARE THE ONLY FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PRESENT GR 103-3 / SICREDI DL 01 Number of inhabitants 2019 2020 2021 Up to 5 thousand 158 162 167 From 5 to 20 thousand 52 54 63 Total 210 216 230 Around 6.7% of our branches are in municipalities classified as needy. According to our partner, Geofusion, municipalities with this characteristic are small, have a greater share of agriculture and public administration in the economy, are more dependent on government transfers and have the worst social indicators, such as the Index of Human Development (HDI). GRI FS 13/ SICREDI DL09 TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF SERVICE POINTS IN MUNICIPALITIES CLASSIFIED AS NEEDY GRI 103-3 / FS13 Number of inhabitantsNumber of municipalities in BrazilNumber of municipalities with Sicredi presencePercentageNumber of branches Up to 5 thousand 523 47 8.99 49 From 5 to 20 thousand 1,126 64 5.68 65 Total 1,649 111 6.73 114¹ The calculation includes bank branches and cooperative service points. In addition, we have Woop Sicredi, our 100% digital and cooperative account, based on the concept of self-service, which has several digital service channels, such as chat, chatbox, video call, email and social networks. In 2021, Woop Sicredi users were able to make their payments via Google Pay, a digital wallet platform and contactless payment system. Understanding our local impact Due to our cooperative model and local operations, the money raised in a community is invested in credit granted to other members in the same locality, generating a virtuous cycle of prosperity, which stimulates investment in the cooperative, generates income for the member and strengthens the local economy. We know that, by being present in less populated, more rural and more isolated locations, we take our products and services to a population of small rural producers and micro and small entrepreneurs who would otherwise not have access to credit and other services. financial. To understand and measure how we generate value in the locations where we are present, we carried out a series of studies to understand the penetration and generation of value of credit cooperatives. In 2021, we carried out the third study in the series “Benefits of Credit Cooperatives”, which evaluates the performance of different banking institutions in the country. GRI 203-2The study shows that credit unions have an important role in providing access to services complete financial services to the population of municipalities that are considered less attractive for maintaining branches of traditional financial institutions. GRI 203-2 To reach the conclusions of the study, we created unprecedented analytical indicators: the Banking Presence Index (IPB), which reflects the probability of having a branch in a given city, and the Municipal Banking Indices (IMB) that evaluate the model business of financial institutions. The Municipal Index of Relative Banking (IMB-R) measures how much its business model is concentrated in municipalities that are difficult to maintain and the Municipal Absolute Banking Index (IMB-A) reflects its performance in expanding the Brazilian banking service frontier. GRI 203-2 The results showed that the cooperative service network has a higher IMB-R and IMB-A than other institutions, that is, it is present in places where banking is more difficult, including a population that, in other cases, would not have access to financial services. GRI 203-2 * The calculation includes bank branches and cooperative service points.105 Local development 104 Sustainability Report 2021 Promote the development of people We positively impact communities by investing in the education and training of our employees, associates and communities. This is especially relevant in the case of employees, as they are, at the same time, residents of the communities where we operate and, Cooperative members are therefore also owners of the business, and responsible for our close and human relationships. GRI 103-1 By investing in its development and learning, we strengthen local development both by improving our ability to meet local demands and by strengthening the region's human capital. In this way, we also create an internal environment of innovation and learning for people to grow. GRI 103-2/ GRI 103-3 We are in a process of redesigning our corporate education strategy, to consolidate the systemic positioning of corporate learning, enhancing local and specific initiatives for each entity. Therefore, we seek to provide a better learning experience for employees, aiming to accelerate the business strategy and the Inspirational 2030 vision, through continuous, scalable and relevant learning. Agile and Inclusive Accelerator We are supporters of Agile and Inclusive Accelerators, initiatives carried out for more than 10 years by the consultancy Thoughtworks and PUCRS, which aim to put university-company relationship concepts into practice to foster innovation and developments aligned with social impact. Aceleradora Ágil was created with the aim of teaching the first steps in agile methodologies and programming to young people from vulnerable social groups. The Inclusive Accelerator was born as an offshoot of this, seeking to accelerate the process of including the most vulnerable social groups in the technology market. Currently, the initiatives operate through mentoring and lectures, offering high school and university students development programs in the area of ​​technology, with the opportunity to learn about programming, experience design, usability testing, among others. Find out more at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YIjHgtnkf9MNUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT (QUANTITY) GRI 102-8 2019 2020 2021 Men Women Men Women Men Women Fixed time* 269 395 225 382 689 1,204 Indefinite time 11,644 16,305 12,109 17,114 13,305 18,929 Total by gender 11,913 16,700 12.33 4 17,496 13,994 20,133 Total 28,613 29,830 34,127 *Determined considers young people and interns NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY CENTER (QUANTITY) GRI 102-8 2019 2020 2021 Central Sicredi South/Southeast 9,918 10,410 11,854 Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ 9,246 9,625 10,681 Central Sicredi Centro North 3,491 3,586 4,455 Central Sicredi Brasil Central 2,155 2,360 2,812 Central Sicredi North/Northeast 1,528 1,518 1,682 Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS) 2,264 2,320 2,643 SicrediPar 11 11 10 Total 28,613 29 .830 34,127 *We do not include SicrediPar employees in the total value, since have already been accounted for in the Centrals. Reinforcing our way of being To maintain the alignment of our culture, we have a catalog of 15 competencies that describe behaviors desired and guide our employee selection, development and recognition processes. They are fundamental to connecting us to our purpose and showing that change is necessary, while maintaining our cooperative essence. Two of these competencies were indicated as core for the entire System, they are: “Cooperative essence” and “Understand to serve”. The remaining competencies are free for each cooperative to choose. SICREDI-RC09107 Local development 106 Sustainability Report 2021 In 2021, we continued the Conecta&Desenvolve Program, which aims to contribute to the development of our skills and support employees in their development. The Program, which ended in 2021, took place in a collaborative way with cooperatives, centers and CAS, who sponsored the skills of their choice, and through monthly lives they addressed success stories, sharing tips on how to put them into practice in the your daily life. GRI 404-2 The lives sensitized employees with content and approaches capable of generating new insights, new connections, reflections and changes in behavior. In 2021, 14 lives were held with more than 5,000 participants. A success built by many hands from many stories and countless experiences. GRI 404-2 Furthermore, the topic is also covered in our Jeito Sicredi de Ser integration program, which presents our essence, values ​​and purpose for new employees. The program aims to offer a new experience to employees in the initial stage of their integration, bringing our essential skills and connecting the new employee to our culture. GRI 404-2 Every year, all hired employees go through the performance evaluation process, in order to guide career development by identifying strengths and opportunities for improvement. All entities that have already implemented the new Performance Management model, carry out performance evaluation following the new competencies. In 2021, employees hired until the month of October underwent a performance assessment, totaling 78.2% of our workforce. GRI 404-3Corporate Learning Amid the constant digital and behavioral transformations that we are experiencing, we find in learning a way to become an organization where employees learn time and adapt quickly to new contexts. To support this scenario, our corporate learning process guides and supports the continuous development of our employees, promoting the training of professionals integrated into the cooperative culture. We currently have 2456 online courses and 1422 web conference classes, available for training our employees, with an investment of around R$27.1 million. In 2021, 33,777 employees carried out our training, with an average of 30 hours each. GRI 404-1/ SICREDI DL13 /DL14 / DL 15/ DL17 One of the ways we conduct the employee learning process is to make content available in online formats, through the Sicredi Aprendi platform, for free access by employees. The content made available makes it possible to work on learning experiences with more interactivity and connection between people, and thus stimulate the protagonism of the employee in their development and career. PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS GRI 404-3 Men 78.42% Women 78.07% Total 78.21% AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER (QUANTITY) GRI 103-3 / 404-1 2019 2020 2021 Men 22 23 30 Women 20 25 30 Total 21 24 30 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY (QUANTITY) GRI 103-3 / 404-1 2019 2020 2021 Elected 7 8 6 Senior Leader dance 21 14 14 Average Leadership 24 27 30 Professionals 21 25 31 Technicians 9 10 27 Trainees 22 16 26 Young Apprentice 15 9 20 Total 21 24 30 Average Training hours per employee for ethnic/racial profile Sicredi DL16 Ethnic Profile Average of White Training Hours 30 Black/Black 30 Not informed 30 Yellow 36 Indigenous 28 Total 30For new employees we provide basic training, which seeks to introduce and acculturate them to our essence. The learning journey of employees is continuous, and for To support them in this journey, training related to different business areas and administrative activities is available. We also have ongoing actions, which include internal and external courses and programs, seminars, congresses and specialization assistance, aiming to expand knowledge regarding processes, methods and techniques used by the market, related to the employee's current position or with a view to professional growth. . Managers have a training of leaders, connected to the current challenges of business transformation, which reinforces their management responsibilities and their role at Sicredi, enabling them to act strategically with a focus on people, processes and results.109 Local development 108 Sustainability Report 2021 In 2021 , to support our team in understanding and adapting to the digital transformation process we are experiencing, we have made fifteen fully available courses on Sicredi Aprendi revitalized, enabling employees on the front line of customer service and those involved in the change to be more prepared to serve our members. In total, over 14,254 employees accessed the training. GRI 404-2 In addition, we launched four more repertoire tracks with themes focused on transformation, made up of free, practical and quick courses, which promote learning in a simple and agile way, with the aim of inspiring change in everyday life of collaborator, in a light and relaxed way. GRI 404-2 Still in the context of transformation, we held the Journey of Change Agents, which aims to level knowledge about change management and the performance of change agents at centers and cooperatives. This year the Journey was held with Central PR/SP/RJ, impacting around 70 employees who work directly in the transformation. GRI 404-2 During the year, we launched the second series of learning about Pix, content consisting of several short videos, infographics, lives and guides to support employees in integrating products and generating new business. Around 2,100 employees took part in the training. GRI 404-2 Among the main initiatives for the development of our employees carried out in 2021 are: Investment Journey Aimed at professionals who sell investment products. Covers certifications, basic concepts of financial education, technical investment knowledge and our product portfolio. It is a live training, where the employee frequently encounters new content. GRI 404-2 Agency Training In 2021, we launched a new module for Agency Training – Business: @acontecenaagência, a five-episode web series that covers tips to support the day-to-day lives of our employees in serving members. The training presents introductory concepts and fundamental for employees who work in our agencies. GRI 404-2 Welcome Manager We revitalized the Welcome Manager Track, creating a learning experience for our leaders, more modern and connected with the current challenges of transforming our business. Among the new features of the track in 2021 is the new module on career dialogues, in which the leader will go through a learning journey for a contemporary career. GRI 404-2 During the year we carry out a survey on the opinion of cooperatives regarding the quality of content available on the Sicredi Aprendi platform. As a result, 90% of respondents stated that they meet their learning needs. GRI 404-2Employee satisfaction This year, our Climate Survey began to be carried out within the Great Place to Work (GPTW) methodology, due to its relevance and compatibility with the market. With it, we are able to have a more accurate perception of the quality of our work environment and know the level of engagement of employees with our values ​​and purpose. As a result, the survey showed a confidence level of 88% among our employees. More than 25 thousand employees responded to the survey, contributing to their perception of our practices. By adopting the methodology, we became a company certified by GPTW, being able to participate, from 2022, in the ranking that lists the best companies for work in Brazil. 111 Local development 110 Sustainability Report 2021 Contributing to the development of communities The positive impact on communities is a natural consequence of our business model. Aiming to further expand our capacity to generate value, we have developed a series of systemic or local social investment actions, which are aligned with the principles and values ​​of cooperativism. GRI 103-1 / 103-2 These initiatives take into account the local needs and generate bonds of trust, which strengthen the community, associates and, consequently, our business. GRI 103-2 Sicredi Platform in the Community The Sicredi platform in the Community, originally conceived in Central Centro Norte, aims to be a social investment hub, which connects people and initiatives to make a difference in the locations where we operate. It is a completely digital space with tools and environments that will connect following social actions: • Social Fund • Sponsorships • Courses • Donations • Incentive Laws • Volunteering Integrating the Sicredi learning ecosystem, we will make several courses available on the platform for the community, with the purpose of promoting knowledge of cooperativism, financial education and sustainability , among other topics. Sicredi na Comunidade will be our relationship platform with the Community, through which we will seek to further materialize the positive impact on associates and places where we are present. Currently, we have already implemented Social Fund and Sponsorship initiatives, and the next initiatives to be added will be Courses (EAD), Fundraising – Donations, Incentive Laws and Volunteering. Through this space, we will enhance the connection between associates, communities and our initiatives. The platform’s conceptual phrase — “Cooperation that connects, grows” — demonstrates that the platform connects people and initiatives to make a difference, connecting those who can donate with those in need. For more information, visit: https://www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/Investimento Social FATES From the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES) we strengthen the principles of cooperativism, offering resources to assist members , their family members, and, when provided for in the bylaws, employees. Cooperatives reserve at least 5% of their financial result to FATES. GRI 103-3Based on the Sicredi Social Investment (ISS) indicator, we calculate the total value of resources invested in social, environmental, cultural, educational and scientific actions in the System. In 2021, R$158.8 million was invested in actions through FATES, the Social Fund, donations and incentive law. SICREDI DL07 113 Local development 112 Sustainability Report 2021 Social Fund Making a difference in the communities where we are present, allying economic development and social transformation is one of the main differentiators of cooperativism. This is what we call interest in the community. And it is through the Social Fund that we transform efforts into a better world for thousands of people. With the Social Fund, cooperatives allocate a percentage of the previous year's results to support initiatives promoted by private, non-profit and legally constituted entities. Supported actions must be measurable in effort, time and impact on social development. In 2021, R$30.7 million was invested in 3,287 social projects of collective interest in education, culture, sport, health, safety, environment and social inclusion. Thus, we contribute to the development of the regions where we operate. SICREDI DL05 VOLUME INVESTED BY THE SOCIAL FUND (R$ MILLION) 15,522,630.7 2019 2020 2021+36% In 2021, R$ 160.8 million was allocated to FATES, while R$ 120.8 millions were used by cooperatives. The growth in values ​​is related to the resumption of economic activities, the opening of schools and actions of educational programs that are developed with FATES resources. Sicredi DL06 Volume for FATES (R $ million) 134.9152.4160.8 2019 2020 2021+6% Volume used by FATES (R $ million) 125.6 89,2120.8 2019 2020 2021+35% 115 Local Development 114 Sustainability Report 2021 Our Volunteer Movement Cooperatives seek to integrate volunteering into the daily lives of their employees and members. The practice is aligned with the principles of cooperativism, such as voluntary and free membership, intercooperation and interest in the community. GRI 103-3 The Volunteer Movement is part of our social responsibility strategy and includes the principles, policies and strategies that guide volunteer actions in a more responsible way, which effectively meets the needs of the community. GRI 103-3 Volunteers participate in various actions such as Cooperate Day (Day C), the A União Faz a Vida Program and the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, among other local programs developed by the cooperatives themselves in their regions. Aí Chegou Project With the aim of transforming the needs and opportunities in its region of operation, the Cooperativa Sicredi Pernambucred, from Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste, and the Instituto Periferia e Cidadania, with the support of Sescoop/PE, created the Aí Chegou Project, which supports young people from the local community by delivering bicycle kits to make deliveries to commercial establishments in the region. The initiative seeks to provide job generation, income and citizenship for young people from the communities of Roda de Fogo, Torrões and Engenho do Meio, in Recife (PE), through cooperation between commercial establishments and young delivery drivers from the local community. Incentive laws We consider incentive laws to be an important way of we contribute to local development. Thus, we have another possibility of expanding our social impact in communities where we are present through the allocation of resources, which can be deducted from the income tax due. In 2021, we allocated a total of R$1.04 million through Federal Tax Incentive Laws. This value represents the impact we generated in more than 38 municipalities, distributed across 8 states, benefiting 38 projects/funds. • Law of Incentive to Culture; • Sports Incentive Law; • Pronon — National Cancer Care Support Program; • Pronas — National Program to Support Health Care for People with Disabilities; • Municipal Fund for the Elderly; • Municipal Fund for Children and Adolescents.117 Local development 116 Sustainability Report 2021 The A União Faz a Vida Program is our main education initiative. With the aim of forming cooperative citizens in the communities where we are included, we encourage children and adolescents to be protagonists, think critically, make decisions and build projects collectively, developing the principles of cooperation and citizenship. GRI 103-3 + 3.7 million children and adolescents impacted + 180 thousand educators involved + 2,600 participating schools + 520 municipalities in 11 Brazilian states RESULT OF OUR ACTION IN 26 YEARS: The Program is based on its own teaching methodology, which values ​​knowledge obtained outside and inside school. In this methodology, which can be applied in Early Childhood Education, Elementary Education and High School, students are protagonists of the learning process and develop projects that help to work on globalized knowledge. For the Program to be developed, it is necessary to bring together the desire and action of the various agents, which is why we have a Commitment network made up of different audiences. Day C Annually, in the month of July, We celebrate C Day (Cooperate Day), a national initiative organized by the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) that demonstrates the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. On that day, participating organizations carry out, through volunteering, social responsibility actions in the communities, aligned with the principles of cooperativism. GRI 103-3 In 2021, the initiative had the motto “Come Transform”, and we carried out a national campaign to monetary and non-perishable food collection, which were directed to people in situations of food insecurity. The campaign mobilized more than 3,800 donors in 330 municipalities and collected more than 1,200 tons of food, in addition to R$ 427 thousand that were raised through donations of values, which directly benefited more than 400 thousand people. NUMBER OF ACTIONS CARRIED OUT IN DAY C 7651,033 1,018 2019 2020 2021-1% SHARES TAKEN IN THE C-DAY MODEL Total shares Percentage of cooperatives that developed actionsNumber of municipalitiesNumber of people impactedNumber of volunteers 1,018 65% 672 905,784 64,456SICREDI DL08119 Local development 118 Sustainability Report 2021 Trainings of the A União Faz a Vida Program In 2021, the Sicredi Foundation in partnership with the Centrals, held 24 training classes of the A União Faz a Vida Program, aiming to develop pedagogical advisors and the development of cooperativism. The objective is to support strategies for conducting the Program in the municipalities where it operates, in order to guarantee its sustainability and expansion. All training took place online, with more than 600 participants and 220 hours of course, based on group dialogues and collective constructions. Historical rescue We celebrated 25 years of the A União Faz a Vida Program in 2020, and to remember our history, we structured a documentary written with excerpts and testimonies from people who were part of it of this journey. Find out more at https://auniaofazavida.com.br/o-programa/historico.html In 2020, when the A União Faz a Vida Program completed 25 years, we carried out a study to evaluate its social impact. The results showed that the Program's positive impacts last in the lives of participants for a period of five to seven years, and correspond to four times the investment made. In other words, for every R$1.00 invested, R$4.07 in social impacts are generated. Currently, 65 cooperatives develop the A União Faz a Vida Program, representing 60.2% of the total number of cooperatives affiliated to the System. GRI 413-1 PROGRAM OVERVIEW THE UNIÃO MAKES LIFE IN 2021 SICREDI DL 03 34,953 Participating educators 437,070 Participating children and adolescents 472 Municipalities* 2,637 Schools 4,913 Projects * Due to the unstable scenario in Brazilian schools, with remote or hybrid classes in several regions , in the years 2020 and 2021 we had a decrease in the amount of municipalities compared to previous years. The Program will be resumed in these regions in 2022. Find out more about the A União Faz a Vida Program at: https://auniaofazavida.com.br/ 121 Local development 120 Sustainability Report 2021 In 2021, we reached the second year of the Program being developed in a systemic format. During the year, we worked with the concept “Cooperativism to go further”, reinforcing the essence of the Program and helping children and adolescents to develop skills, generating opportunities for their lives. Two training groups for the Program were held to develop pedagogical and cooperativism development advisors, totaling more than 80 participants and around 40 hours of training. For more information, visit: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/fundacao/ cooperatives-escolares/Watch the institutional video of the Program: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7pt_j1u4NFIO Escola Cooperativas Program aims to expand the learning opportunities for children and adolescents through social and cultural activities that bring them experience of the values ​​and principles of cooperativism. GRI 103-3 Activities are aimed at developing skills such as leadership, social entrepreneurship, financial education and social inclusion. They are carried out in partnership with educational institutions that believe in integral and innovative education. GRI 103-3 Its methodology was developed with the contribution from educators and students and is based on a gamification approach. Through the Cooperlandia Game, students articulate knowledge and skills that develop into elements within the learning path – experience, evaluation and reflection – developing skills such as knowledge, creativity, citizenship and leadership. In 2021, we encouraged 152 School Cooperatives in 82 municipalities, impacting 4.1 thousand students. SICREDI DL04 NUMBER OF SCHOOL COOPERATIVES 151 145152 2019 2020 2021+5% The incredible world of School CooperativesThe incredible world of School Cooperatives The incredible world of School CooperativesThe incredible world of School Cooperatives Lots of fun + lots of learning! Lots of fun + lots of learning! Play with us! Play with us! Play with us! Fundação Sicredi School Cooperatives Program Ben, Jo, Liza and Ana are the Program's mascots and represent leaders of the Cooperativism.Cooperativa Escolar Paredão dos Sonhos currently meeting Pingo de Mel School Cooperative in the vote General Foundation Assembly123 Annexes Annexes05ChapterDiversity of Employees GENDER OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL (2021) Total (quantity)Male (quantity)Percentage Female (quantity)Percentage Elected 203 193 95.1% 10 4.9% Top Leadership 270 240 88.9% 30 11.1% Middle Leadership 4,587 2,515 54.8% 2,072 45.2% Professionals 26,254 10,007 38.1% 16,247 61.9% TECHNICAL 920 350 38.0% 570 62.0% Interns 1,140 403 35.4% 737 64.6% Young Apprentice 753 286 38.0% 467 62.0% Total 34.127 13.994 41.0% 20.133 59 .0% GENDER OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL (2020) Total (quantity)Male (quantity)Percentage Female (quantity)Percentage Elected 208 198 95.2% 10 4.8% Senior Leadership 275 250 90.9% 25 9.1 % Average Leadership 4,091 2,227 54.4% 1,864 45.6% Professionals 23,696 9,039 38.2% 14,657 61.9% Technicians 107 105 98.1% 2 1.9% Interns 846 290 34.3% 556 65.7% Young Apprentice 607 225 37.1% 382 62.9% Total 29,830 12,334 41.3% 17,496 58.7% GENDER OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL (2019) Total (quantity) Male ( quantity)Percentage Female (quantity)Percentage Elected 205 195 95.1% 10 4.9% High Leadership 279 256 91.8% 23 8.2% Average Leadership 3,930 2,129 54.2% 1,801 45.8% Professionals 22,409 8,589 38 .3% 13,820 61.7% Technicians 115 91 79.1% 24 20.9% Interns 1,011 384 38.0% 627 62.0% Young Apprentice 664 269 40.5% 395 59.5% Total 28,613 11,913 41.6% 16,700 58.4%125 Annexes 124 Sustainability Report 2021 AGE GROUP OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL (2021) Total (quantity) Under 20 years old (quantity) Percentage From 21 to 30 years old (quantity) Percentage From 31 to 40 years old (quantity) Percentage From 41 to 50 years old (quantity) Percentage Over 50 years old (quantity) Percentage Elected 203 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 2 0.01% 23 0, 07% 178 0.52% Top Leadership 270 0 0.0% 1 0.00% 59 0.17% 111 0.33% 99 0.29% Average Leadership 4,587 0.0% 608 1.78% 2,463 7.22% 1.188 3.48% 328 0.96% Professional 26,254 644 1.89% 12,474 36.55% 10,257 30.06% 2,411 7.06% 468 1.37% Technicians 920 3 0.01% 376 1.10% 417 1.22% 94 0.28% 30 0.09% Interns 1,140 448 1.31% 656 1.92% 35 0.10% 1 0 .00% 0 0.00% Young Apprentice 753 683 2.00% 70 0.21% 0 0.0% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Total 34,127 1,778 5.21% 14,185 41.6% 13,233 38 .78% 3,828 11.22% 1,103 3.23% AGE GROUP OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL (2020) Total (quantity) Below 20 years (quantity) Percentage From 21 to 30 years (quantity) Percentage From 31 to 40 years (quantity) Percentage From 41 to 50 years (quantity) Percentage Over 50 years (quantity) Percentage Elected 208 0 0.0% 0 0, 0% 3 1.4% 27 13.0% 178 85.6% High Leadership 275 0 0.0% 2 0.7% 58 21.1% 106 38.5% 109 39.6% Medium Leadership 4,091 0 0 .0% 602 14.7% 2,208 54.0% 1,009 24.7% 272 6.6% Professionals 23,696 527 2.2% 11,235 47.4% 9,376 39.6% 2,113 8.9% 445 1.9% Technicians 107 2 1.9% 60 56.1% 35 32.7% 9 8.4% 1 0.9% Interns 846 387 45.7% 445 52.6% 13 1.5% 1 0.1% 0 0.0% Young Apprentice 607 530 87, 3% 77 12.7% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% Total 29,830 1,446 4.8% 12,421 41.6% 11,693 39.2% 3,265 10.9% 1,005 3.4% AGE GROUP OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL (2019) Total (quantity) Under 20 years old (quantity) Percentage From 21 to 30 years old (quantity) Percentage From 31 to 40 years old (quantity) Percentage From 41 to 50 years old (quantity) Percentage Above 50 years old (quantity) Percentage Elected 205 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 4 2.0% 26 12.7% 175 85.4% High Leadership 279 0 0.0% 2 0.7% 60 21.5% 113 40.5% 104 37.3% Medium Leadership 3,930 2 0.1 % 625 15.9% 2,135 54.3% 905 23.0% 263 6.7% Professionals 22,409 579 2.6% 11,106 49.6% 8,547 38.1% 1,788 8.0% 389 1.7% Technicians 115 1 0.9% 48 41.7% 39 33.9% 16 13.9% 11 9.6% Interns 1,011 476 47.1% 520 51.4% 15 1.5% 0 0.0% 0 0, 0% Young Apprentice 664 597 89.9% 67 10.1% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% Total 28,613 1,655 5.8% 12,368 43.2% 10,800 37.7% 2,848 10, 0% 942 3.3%127 Attachments 126 Sustainability Report 2021 PERSON WITH DISABILITIES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL 2019 (quantity) Percentage 2020 (quantity) Percentage 2021 (quantity) Percentage Elected 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 0 0.0% Senior Leadership 1 0.4% 1 0 .4% 0 0.0% Average Leadership 36 0.9% 44 1.1% 56 1.2% Professionals 601 2.7% 684 2.9% 786 3.0% Technicians 3 2.6% 3 2, 8% 12 1.3% Interns 4 0.4% 5 0.6% 4 0.4% Young Apprentice 3 0.5% 1 0.2% 0 0.0% Total 648 2.3% 738 2.5 % 858 2.5% BLACK EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL 2019 (quantity)Percentage 2020 (quantity)Percentage 2021 (quantity)Percentage Elected 0 0.0% 3 1.4% 1 0.5% High Leadership 0 0.0% 10 3.6% 9 3.3% Medium Leadership 35 0, 9% 201 4.9% 263 5.7% Professionals 234 1.0% 1,274 5.4% 2,454 9.3% Technicians 1 0.9% 18 16.8% 64 7.0% Interns 13 1.3% 99 11.7% 280 24.6% Young Apprentice 7 1.1% 66 10.0% 142 18.9% Total 290 1.0% 1,666 5.6% 3,213 9.4% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER GRI 401 -1 Number of new employees hiredRate of new employees hiringTotal number of employees terminatedTurnover rate Male 4,355 31.12% 2,719 25.28% Female 6,161 30.60% 3,517 24.04% Total 10,516 30.81% 6,236 24.54% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP Number of new collaborators hiredRate of new hiresTotal number of employees terminatedTurnover rate Under 20 years 1,389 43.00% 777 34.00% From 21 to 30 years old 5,698 22.00% 2,816 16.00% From 31 to 40 years old 2,734 17.00% 1,962 14 .00% From 41 to 50 years old 583 12.00% 511 11.00% Over 50 years old 112 1.00% 170 1.00% Total 10,516 30.81% 6,236 24.54% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY REGION Number of new employees hiredRate of new hiresTotal number of terminated employeesTurnover rate Central South/Southeast 3,195 72.00% 1,771 56.00% Central PR/SP/RJ 3,088 110.00% 2,013 91.00% Central Central North 1,780 15.00% 905 11.00% Central Brazil Central 1,180 45.00% 723 36.00% Central North/Northeast 549 5.00% 385 4.00% CAS 724 43.00% 439 35.00% Total 10,516 30.81% 6,236 24.54%129 Annexes 128 Sustainability Report 2021 Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. GRI 101: Fundamentals – 2016 General contents 2016 GRI 102: General contents 2016102-1 Organization name Page 12 102-2Main activities, brands, products and/or servicesPage 12 102-3 Headquarters location Page 12 102-4Number of countries in which the organization operatesPage 13 102-5Type and nature legal ownership We are made up of individual credit cooperatives (financial institutions of the cooperative, non-profit and limited liability type), their respective centers (financial institutions of the cooperative, non-profit and limited liability type), the Interstate Confederation of Cooperatives Linked to Sicredi (Confederação Sicredi, cooperative society type, non-profit and responsible limited), Sicredi participation S/A (SicrediPar, of the public limited company type), the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi, of the private foundation type), Sicredi Fundos Garantidores (civil association, non-profit profitable), Banco Cooperativo Sicredi S/A (Banco Sicredi, a financial institution of the public limited company type) and the companies controlled by it: Administradora de Bens Sicredi Ltda, Administradora de Consórcios Sicredi Ltda, and Corretora de Seguros Sicredi Ltda (all limited liability companies, Ltda) 102-6 Markets served Page 14 102-7 Size of the organization Information on the size of our business is on page 12. In addition to these data, we closed 2021 with a capitalization of R$9.3 billion and debt of R$7.94 billion. 102-8Profile of employees and other workersOf the 34,127 employees, 32,234 are full-time employees, being 13,305 men and 18,929 women. We also have 1,893 part-timers, 689 men and 1,204 women. Due to the nature of our business, cooperatives have the autonomy to carry out their own contracting of third parties, so we do not systemically monitor this information. 102-9Description of the Company's supply chainPage 97 102-10Main changes in the company's structure and supply chain during the period coveredPage 97 102-11Precautionary principle or approachPage 88 Compact: 7Indices GRI Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. GRI 102: General contents 2016102-12Charters, principles or other initiatives developed externally of an economic, environmental and social nature, which the organization subscribes or endorsesPage 40, 92, 95 102-14 Declaration of the highest executive Page 4 102-16Values, principles, norms and codes of behaviorPage 16 Pact: 10 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 21 102-41Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining96.07% of employees are covered by collective bargaining convention or agreement. The agreements do not cover interns and elected officials. Pact: 3 102-42Basis used to identify and select stakeholders for engagementPage 21 102-43Approach adopted by the Company to engage stakeholders and frequency of engagementPage 21 102-44Main topics raised during the engagement of stakeholders and measures adopted by the Company to address them There is no survey of the main topics of interest to our stakeholders, but we carry out satisfaction surveys with associates, in addition to a climate survey aimed at employees, and other satisfaction surveys regarding to deliveries made to other audiences. 102-45List of entities included in the financial statementsThe financial statements of our 2021 combined balance sheet include Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, Credit Cooperatives, Centrals, Confederação Sicredi, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, Administradora de Consórcios and some Investment Funds, in which these entities assume or retain substantially risks and benefits. The list of companies was updated in 2021, as on December 30, 2020, Bacen determined, through Official Letter 34129/2020−BCB/Desuc, the extension of the list of entities contained in item III of art. 2nd of Resolution No. 4,151, of October 30, 2012. 102-46Process for defining the content and limit of the reportPage 37 102-47List of material aspects identified in the content definition processPages 38 and 39 102-48Explanation of the consequences of any reformulations of information provided in previous reportsNo information from previous reports was reformulated. 102-49Significant changes compared to previous years regarding the list of material topics, limit of topics coveredIn 2021 we updated the focal themes, which went from 8 to 12, but there was, in fact, no inclusion or exclusion of new themes. The themes were simply rewritten and reorganized to provide more clarity regarding their focus, as well as to highlight themes that were previously brought together but that needed separation, in order to highlight the importance they represent in the materiality matrix. Furthermore, there were changes in the GRI 204-1 indicators and the Sicredi D L-05 indicator. 102-50 Reporting period January 1 to December 31, 2021 102-51 Most recent previous reporting date2020 102-52 Reporting cycle AnnualFor the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services has reviewed whether the GRI Standards Summary of Content is presented clearly and that references to Contents 102-40 through 102-49 are aligned with the corresponding sections in the body of the Report. The service was carried out in the Portuguese version of the Report.131 Annexes 130 Sustainability Report 2021 Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. GRI 102: General contents 2016102-53Contact details regarding questions regarding the reportQuestions or suggestions can be sent to Fundação Sicredi (Sustainability team) by email: sistência@sicredi.com.br 102-54Reporting assumptions in accordance with you GRI StandardsThis report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Essential option. 102-55 GRI Content Summary Page 126 102-56 External verification Page 142 Material topic: Spreading cooperativism and sustainability GRI 102: General contents 2016102-13Main participations in associations and/or national/international defense bodiesWe actively participate in Febraban, where We make up the Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee and its Groups of Work. In addition, we participate in the following associations: ABAC - Brazilian Association of Consortium Administrators ABAG - Brazilian Agribusiness Association ABECIP - Brazilian Association of Real Estate Credit and Savings Entities ABBC - Brazilian Bank Association ANBIMA - Brazilian Association of Financial and Savings Market Entities Capitals ABECS - Brazilian Association of Credit Card and Service Companies OCB - Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives GRI 103: Management Method – 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 54 Pact: 1 and 8 Own contents103-2 Management on the material topic Page 54 103-3 Evolution of management Page 54 Sicredi-RC06Total number and percentage of graduates from CrescerPágina 54 Sicredi-RC07Number of Fiscal and Administration Counselors trained at Crescer, broken downPage 54 Sicredi-RC08Total and hours of employees trained in cooperative themes, broken down by program and time at homePage 55 Sicredi-RC10Total and hours of employees trained in sustainability topics, broken down by programPage 57 Pact: 1 Sicredi-RC14Total number of works made available to members in the Sicredi library, broken down by regionpage 56Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of Global Compact. Material topic: Promoting diversity and inclusion GRI 103: Management Method – 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and its limitsPage 59 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 59 Pact: 1 103-3 Evolution of management Page 59 GRI 102: General contents 2016 102-24Selection and appointment processes for the highest governance body and its committees, including if factors such as diversity, independence, knowledge and experience and involvement of stakeholders (including shareholders) are consideredPage 28 and 30 GRI 202: Market Presence - 2016202-1Proportion between the lowest salary and the local minimum wage, with discrimination by genderThe lowest salary paid by the organization to male employees represents 105.86% of the local minimum wage while the lowest salary paid to female employees represents 115.24% of the minimum wage. For this GRI content, only employees working 8 hours a day are considered, as we equate them as provided for in the legislation where the minimum wage is set for a full 8 hour day. For this content, inactive employees who are retired due to disability were not considered. In total, there are 24 inactive employees recorded on 12/31/2021, who despite being inactive remain in the database, as their position is guaranteed in the event of recovery from disability and can continue receiving employment benefits. The contractual salaries of these employees were considered to calculate the average remuneration of all employees. They were also not considered Interns, Young People and Elected. GRI 401: Employment - 2016401-1New hires and employee turnoverPage 127 401-3Benefits offered to full-time employees that are not offered to temporary or part-time employeesPage 63 Pact: 6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities – 2016405-1Diversity in governance bodies and employeesPage 62 Pact: 6 405-2Proportion between base salary and remuneration received by women and those received by menPage 63 Covenant: 6133 Annexes 132 Sustainability Report 2021 Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. Own contentSicredi-RC02Diversity in the membership, with percentages by gender, age group, race and PWD by center and segmentPage 60 and 61 Sicredi-RC17Number of women participating in the committee WomanPage 60 and 61 Pact: 6 Sicredi-RC18% of cooperatives with a Committee WomanPage 60 and 61 Pact: 6 Sicredi-RC19Number of young people participating in the CommitteePage 60 and 61 Pact: 6 Sicredi-RC20% of cooperatives with a Youth CommitteePage 61 Pact: 6 Sicredi-RC03Percentage of Sicredi units in compliance with NBR 9050There is no centralized inventory that demonstrates the degree of adherence of agencies to NBR 9050, however we maintain documentation that guides the technical accessibility requirements at a systemic level, described on page 63. Agreement: 1 Sicredi-RC04 Percentage of cashiers electronics in accordance with NBR 15250Page 63 Pact: 1 Material topic: Strengthen our governance model GRI 103: Management approach – 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 48 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 48 Pact: 10 103 -3 Evolution of management Page 48 GRI 102: General contents 2016 - 2016102-17Internal and external mechanisms adopted by the organization to request guidance on ethical behavior and in compliance with legislation, as relationship channels (e.g. ombudsman) Page 50 Pact: 1 102-18 Governance structure, including committees Page 26, 31 and 32 102-19 Process of delegation of authority on economic, environmental and social topics by the highest governance body to executives and employeesPage 35 102-20Process of designating executive-level positions and functions as responsible for economic, environmental and social topics and whether these responsible report directly to the highest governance bodyPage 36 102-21Consultation processes used between stakeholders and the highest governance body in relation to economic, environmental and social topics. If the consultation is delegated to other structures, bodies or people, indication of existing feedback processes for the highest governance bodyPage 21 102-22Composition of the highest governance body and its committeesPage 30Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of Global Compact. GRI 102: General contents 2016 - 2016102-23Indication if the president of the highest governance body is also an executive directorPage 31 102-24Selection and appointment to the highest governance bodyPage 30 102-25Processes used by the highest governance body to prevent and manage conflicts of interestThe Code of Conduct addresses conflicts of interest relating to all our employees. Our Bylaws state that members of the The Board of Directors' basic conditions for holding the position are: • Not being a spouse or partner, nor being related to members of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board or the Board of Directors; • Do not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with members of the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Board of Directors; • Not be an employee or administrator or hold shares in a company that is considered a competitor of any Sicredi entity; • Not having held or currently holding a political or party position or function in the last civil year.” 102-26Role of the highest governance body and executives in developing, approving and updating the organization's purpose, mission statement, vision and values, and defining strategies, policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social topics Page 30 102-27Measures taken to develop and enhance knowledge of the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topicsIn 2021, due to the need for social isolation resulting from Covid-19, it was not possible to carry out in-person training with leaders. Even so, technical discussions were held on specific agendas of executive meetings, quarterly meetings of the Foundation Committee and SicrediPar Council. 102-28Processes for assessing the performance of the highest governance body with respect to topic governance economic, environmental and socialPage 31 102-32Highest-level body or position that formally reviews and approves the organization's Sustainability Report and ensures that all material aspects are addressedPage 8 102-35Remuneration policies applied to the highest governance body and to executivesPage 31 102-36Process adopted to determine remunerationPage 31 102-37Stakeholder participation in relation to remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicablePage 31135 Annexes 134 Sustainability Report 2021 Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. GRI 102: General contents 2016 - 2016102-38Proportion between the total annual remuneration of the organization's highest paid individual in each country in which the organization has significant operations and the total average annual remuneration of all employees (excluding the highest paid paid) in the same countryEntity Proportion Central/Southeast 7.35% Central PR/SP/RJ 3.47% Central Central North 7.63% Central Brazil Central 8.34% Central North/Northeast 6.92% CAS 5.64% The calculation included the contractual salary, bonuses, private pension benefits, life insurance, employee meal program, dental assistance, medical assistance and daycare, and also includes the potential for earning short- and long-term variable remuneration, depending on the elements. in remuneration available for each position. For this calculation, interns and young apprentices were not considered. For this content, inactive employees who are retired due to disability were considered. In total, there are 24 inactive employees recorded on 12/31/2021, who despite being inactive remain in the database, as their position is guaranteed in the event of recovery from disability and can continue receiving employment benefits. The contractual salaries of these employees were considered to calculate the average remuneration of all employees. Agreement: 10 GRI 205: Combating Corruption - 2016205-1 Percentage and total number of operations subject to risk assessments related to corruption and significant risks identified Procedures for assessing risks related to corruption are described on page 51. The numbers referring to this assessment, however, cannot be presented as they are information confidential.Pact: 10 205-2Communication and training in policies and procedures to combat corruptionPage 51 Pact: 10 205-3Confirmed cases of corruption and measures takenDuring 2021, there were no records related to corruption. Pact: 10 GRI 206: Unfair Competition - 2016206-1Total number of lawsuits for unfair competition, trust and monopoly practices and their resultsAction filed by CoinBR Serviços Digitais Ltda (cryptocurrency broker) against Banco Cooperativo Sicredi S.A., case no. 1097937- 91.2017.8.26.0100, which, alleging anti-competitive practices by Sicredi, intended to force the cooperative to keep its account active. The account was closed, as authorized by court. The action was judged partially valid in a ruling for the purpose of authorizing the closure of the account upon prior notification with a period of 60 days. The sentence was maintained until a final decision by the Superior Court of Justice. In the absence of an appeal by COINBR, this decision became final, definitively closing the process on 02/07/2022.Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling – 2016417-3Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes relating to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, broken down by type of resultWe did not record occurrences of non-compliance in communication campaigns, promotional regulations and sports sponsorships in 2021. GRI 418: Customer privacy - 2016418-1Total number of proven complaints regarding privacy violations and loss of customer dataWe have 15 records related to privacy violations and loss of customer data. Of these, 14 talk about fraud and scams, all involving people with no ties to Sicredi, with only 1 case of an associate referring to the link of activities on your account. GRI 419: Socio-economic Compliance – 2016419-1Significant non-monetary fines or sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations relating to the social and economic areasWe have two non-compliance with laws and regulations relating to the socio-economic area. One refers to Equalized Rural Savings (funding: PRONAF, PRONAMP and Other Producers; investment: PRONAMP), with a fine of R$ 1,259.61. Agricultural funding was identified, under no. B90820656-7, with overlapping of the benefited area with indigenous land. Received Letter 34074 from Bacen, pointing out the lack of payment of economic subsidies to the National Treasury. On 02/22/2021, the Bank's rural credit area carried out the return procedures to the national Treasury with a debit entry from the Cooperative. And another case referring to Directed Credit: FCO (Rural, Tourism, Industrial and Services), with a fine of R$ 10,239.80. We received an award for a rural property, which had a pigsty with an open waste reservoir. Environmental surveillance visited the property and requested its closure. The agency hired a company to carry out proper treatment of the waste. However, she only closed it and the reservoir burst and the waste fell into a nearby river. The environmental police contacted the MPF. The Cooperative made a legal agreement, agreeing to pay 24 thousand, this amount being the second portion. Own contentsSicredi-RC11Percentage of participants in assemblies, broken down by member and non-member, age group, gender and centralPage 48 Sicredi-RC12Projects/channels to increase the transparency of the System before interested parties.Page 29 and 48 Sicredi-RC13Actions taken to ensure the privacy and security of member data.Page 53 Sicredi-RC16Number of Center Coordinators, broken down by age group, gender and centerPage 49137 Annexes 136 Sustainability Report 2021 Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. Material topic: Promoting financial education GRI 103: Management approach – 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 83 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 83 103-3 Evolution of management Page 83 Sector Disclosures: Financial ServicesFS16Initiatives to improve financial education by type of beneficiaryPages 84, 85 and 86 Own ContentSicredi-SR01Number of Financial Education actions carried out and number of people impacted, broken down by employee, associate and community by centerPage 83 Material topic: Offering financial and non-financial solutions with economic, social and environmental impact GRI 103: Form of Management - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 66 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 66 Pact: 9 103-3 Evolution of management Page 71 Sector Disclosures: Financial ServicesFS6Percentage of portfolio by lines of business by specific regions, size and sectorPage 71 FS7Monetary value of products and services created to provide a specific social benefit for each line of business, divided by purposePage 79 to 81 Pact: 9 FS8Monetary value of products and services created to provide a specific environmental benefit for each line of business, divided by purposePage 79 Compact: 9 FS14Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged peoplePage 67 Compact: 1 FS15Policies for fair development and sale of financial products and servicesPage 66Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. Ensure integrated risk management GRI 102: General Contents - 2016102-11Precautionary principle or approachPage 88 Pact: 7 102-12 External initiatives Page 40, 93 and 95 102-15Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunitiesPage 87 102-29Role played by the highest governance body in identifying and managing topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities arising from economic, environmental and social issuesPage 87 102-30Role played by the highest governance body in analyzing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topicsPage 87 102-31Frequency at which the highest body of governance analyzes topics and their impacts, risks and opportunities arising from economic, environmental and social issuesPage 87 GRI 103: Management Method - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 88 103-2 Management on material topics Page 88 Pact: 7 103-3 Evolution of management Page 92 GRI 201: Economic Performance - 2016201-2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate changePage 93 Pact: 7139 Annexes 138 Sustainability Report 2021 Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment - 2016412-3Percentage and total number of significant investment contracts that include clauses relating to human rights or that have been subject to assessments relating to human rightsWe do not include clauses relating to human rights in our investment contracts because the practice does not apply to standardized/exchange-traded financial instruments. This would be applicable to a structured credit manager or a venture capital, markets where Sicredi's manager does not operate. Pact: 2 Sector Disclosures: Financial Services FS1 Policies with specific socio-environmental components applied to lines of business Page 89 Pact: 7 FS2 Procedures for evaluating and screening socio-environmental risks in business linesPage 88 Pact: 4, 5 and 7 FS3Processes for monitoring the client's implementation of compliance with environmental and social requirements included in contracts or transactionsPage 90 Agreement: 7 FS4Process(es) to improve the competence of personnel in the implementation of environmental and social policies and procedures applied across lines of businessPage 93 Pact: 7 FS5Interactions with customers/controlled companies/business partners regarding socio-environmental risks and opportunitiesPages 81 and 89 Pact: 7 FS9Scope and frequency of audits to evaluate the implementation of environmental and social policies, and risk assessment proceduresPage 92 Pact: 4, 5 and 7 FS10Percentage and number of companies in the institution's portfolio with which the organization interacted on environmental or social issuesPage 90 Pact: 7 Focal theme: Promote eco-efficient management GRI 102: General contents 2016 - 2016102-12Charters, principles or other initiatives developed externally by economic, environmental and social character, which the organization subscribes or endorsesPage 40, 93 and 95 GRI 103: Management Method - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 94 Pact: 7, 8 and 9 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 94 103-3 Evolution of management Page 94 GRI 305: Emissions - 2016305-1Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 1)Page 95 Pact: 7 and 8 305-2Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 2)Page 95 Pact: 7 and 8 GRI 305: Emissions - 2016305-3Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 3)Page 95 Pact: 7 and 8 305-4Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)Page 95 Pact: 7 and 8Standard Disclosures Reference/ direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. Own contentSicredi-SR03 GHG emissions per employee Page 96 Pact: 8 Sicredi-SR06Total emissions per employee (tCO2e/employee)Page 95 Pact: 8 Material topic: Working with suppliers and partners with sustainable management GRI 103: Management Method - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 97 103-2Management on the material topic Pact: 1 and 8Page 97 103-3 Evolution of management Page 97 GRI 308: Environmental Assessment of Suppliers - 2016308 -1Percentage of new suppliers selected based on environmental criteriaPage 97 Pact: 8 308-2Real and potential significant negative environmental impacts on the supply chain and measures taken to address this respectPage 97 Pact: 8 GRI 414: Social Assessment of Suppliers - 2016414-1 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on criteria related to human rightsPage 97 Pact: 2, 4 and 5 Material topic: Promoting the local economy GRI 103: Management Method - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 100 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 101 Pact: 1 103-3 Evolution of management Page 101 GRI 102: General contents 2016 - 2016102-16Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior of the organization, such as codes of conduct and ethicsPage 100 GRI 201: Economic Performance - 2016201-1Direct economic value generated and distributedPage 100 GRI 204: Purchasing practices - 2016204-1Proportion of expenditure with local suppliers in units important operational issuesPage 100 Material topic: Promoting financial inclusion GRI 103: Management approach - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 102 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 102 Pact: 1 103-3 Evolution of management Page 102141 Annexes 140 Sustainability Report 2021 Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. GRI 202: Market Presence - 2016202-2Proportion of senior management members hired from the local community in important operational unitsWe consider the Board of Directors and the Executive Board of Centrals and Cooperatives to be senior management, as well as the Executive Board of the Sicredi Administrative Center. In this context, centrals and cooperatives have the autonomy to hire their Executive Board and we do not have systemic information about this process. All Board Members are members and, therefore, are part of the local community. At the Sicredi administrative center (CAS), 71% of Executive Directors were hired locally. We consider as local hiring those in which the Director's CPF Executive has been registered in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts - 2016203-2Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impactsPage 103 Sector Disclosures: Financial ServicesFS13Access points in areas of low demographic density or economically disadvantaged, for typePage 102 Own contentSicredi-DL01Number of municipalities in which Sicredi is the only financial institutionPage 100 Sicredi- DL02Amount and percentage of result distributed to associatesPage 101 Material topic: Contributing to the development of people: GRI 102: General contents 2016 - 2016102-8Profile of employees and other workersPage 105 GRI 103: Management approach - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 104 103-2 Management on the material theme Page 104 Pact: 1 103-3 Evolution of management Page 104 GRI 404: Training and Education - 2016404-1Average hours of training per year, per employee, broken down by gender and functional categoryPage 106 and 107 Pact: 6 404-2Skills management and continuous learning programs that support the continued employability of employees and preparation for retirementPage 106 404-3Percentage of employees who receive regularly analyze performance and career development, broken down by gender and functional category. In 2021, we decided to change the way we calculate the percentage of employees who carry out performance evaluation to align it with what the GRI requires. We now include the entire workforce in the calculation, and not just eligible employees. Compact: 6Standard Disclosures Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact. Own contentSicredi-RC09Assessment of cooperativism in employee performance analysisPage 104 Pact: 6 Sicredi-DL13Amount (R$) invested in training for employeesPage 106 Pact: 6 Sicredi-DL14Total number of trained employeesPage 106 Pact: 6 Sicredi-DL15Average hours of training per employeePage 106 Pact: 6 Sicredi-DL16Average number of hours of training per employee, by functional category, gender, ethnic/racial profilePage 107 Pact : 6 Sicredi-DL17Number of courses available to train employeesPage 106 Agreement: 6 Focal theme: Contribute to the development of communities GRI 103: Management Method - 2016103-1Explanation of material topics and their limitsPage 110 103-2 Management on the material topic Page 110 Pact: 1 and 8 103-3 Management evolution Page 110, 111 and 120 GRI 413: Local Communities - 2016413-1Percentage of operations with programs implemented local community engagement, impact assessment and/or local developmentPage 118 Pact: 1 Own contentSicredi-DL03Number of municipalities, educational institutions, students, educators and projects participants in the A União Faz a Vida Program, broken down by centerPage 118 Pact: 1 Sicredi-DL04Number of municipalities, educational institutions and students participating in school cooperatives, broken down by centerPage 120 Pact: 1 Sicredi-DL05Amount invested in community projects, number of projects and number of people impacted broken down by source of resources (Social Fund).Page 113 Pact: 1 Sicredi-DL06Volume allocated to the Technical Assistance Fund, Educational and Social (Fates) and the volume used by the Fund.Page 112 Pact: 1 Sicredi-DL07Amounts allocated by incentive lawsPage 111 Sicredi-DL08Number of volunteers, people benefited, actions carried out and municipalities affected by the day CPage 116143 Annexes 142 Sustainability Report 2021 SDG Maps Sustainable cities and communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Responsible consumption and production Ensure sustainable production and consumption patterns. Decent work and economic growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. By joining the Global Compact we also assume the responsibility to contribute to achieving of the 2030 agenda, a global agenda aims to engage countries, companies, institutions and civil society in favor of sustainable development. It was established in 2015, when The 193 member countries of the United Nations approved, by consensus, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Poverty eradication End poverty in all its forms, everywhere. Page Theme Promote financial education 83 Clean and affordable energy Ensure reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable access to energy for all. Page Theme Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact66 Promote eco-efficient management 94Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. Theme Page Spread cooperativism and sustainability 54 Promote financial education 83 Promote people's development 104 Contribute to the development of communities110 Reduce inequalities Reduce inequality within and between countries. Theme Page Promote diversity and inclusion 59 Boost the local economy 100 Promote financial inclusion 102Gender equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Page Theme Promote inclusion and diversity 59Theme Pag. Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact66 Tema Pag. Offer financial and non-financial solutions with a positive economic, social and environmental impact66 Promote eco-efficient management 94 Promote the local economy 100Theme Page. Spread cooperativism and sustainability 54 Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact66 Ensure integrated risk management 87 Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management97 Promote the local economy 25 Promote financial inclusion 59 Promote the development of people 104 Industry, innovation and infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Page Theme Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management97 Action against global climate change Take urgent measures to combat climate change and its impacts. Page Theme Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact66 Ensure integrated risk management 87 Promote eco-efficient management 94Life on land Protect, recover and promote the sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, manage sustainably forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt loss. Page Theme Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact66 Promote eco-efficient management 94 Peace justice and effective institutions Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, responsible and inclusive institutions in all levels. Partnerships and means of implementation Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. Page Theme Promote the local economy 100 Contribute to the development of communities110Theme Pag. Strengthen our governance model 48 Spread cooperativism and sustainability 54 Ensure integrated risk management 87 Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management97 Promote people development 104145 Annexes 144 Report Sustainability 2021 Assurance letter Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditors of the Annual Sustainability Report of the Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi, based on the GRI guidelines, Standards version and “Essential” reporting option. To the Administrators and Associates of the Cooperative Credit System - Sicredi Porto Alegre – RS INTRODUCTION We were hired by the administration of the Cooperative Credit System - Sicredi (“Sicredi”) to present our limited assurance report on the indicators contained in the Annual Sustainability Report, based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”), Standards version, for the year ended December 31, 2021 (“Report”). Responsibilities of Sicredi's management Sicredi's management is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of the information contained in the Report in accordance with GRI criteria, assumptions and methodologies (reporting option “Essential”), and by the internal controls that it determined were necessary to allow the preparation of this information free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. RESPONSIBILITY OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information contained in the Report, based on the limited assurance work conducted in accordance with Ibracon Technical Communication (CT) № 07/2012, approved by the Board Federal Accounting and prepared based on NBC TO 3000 (Assurance Works Other than Audit and Review), issued by the Federal Accounting Council – CFC, which is equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000, issued by the International Federation of Accountants, applicable to non-historical information. These standards require compliance with ethical requirements, including independence requirements and that work is performed with the aim of achieving safety limited assurance that the indicators contained in the Report are free from material distortions. Limited assurance work conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) consists mainly of inquiries to management and other Sicredi professionals who were involved in preparing the information contained in the Report through the application of analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us conclude in the form of limited assurance on the Report indicators. A limited assurance work also requires the execution of additional procedures, when the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead him to believe that the information contained in the Report may present material distortions. The procedures selected were based on our understanding of aspects relating to the compilation and presentation of information contained in the Report in accordance with criteria, assumptions and methodologies Sicredi's own. The procedures included: a. planning the work, considering the relevance, the volume of quantitative and qualitative information and the internal controls that served as the basis for preparing the information contained in the Report; B. (b) understanding the calculation methodology and procedures for preparing and compiling the Report through interviews with the managers responsible for preparing the information; w. application of analytical procedures and sample verification of certain evidence that supports the data used to prepare the Report; d. comparison of data of a financial nature with the financial statements and/or accounting records The limited assurance work also included adherence to the guidelines of the structure for preparing the GRI - Standards indicators, applicable in the preparation of the information contained in the Report. We understand that the evidence obtained in our work were sufficient and appropriate to support our conclusion in limited form. SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less extensive than those applied in an assurance engagement that aims to issue an opinion on the information contained in the Report. Consequently, they do not enable us to obtain assurance that we are aware of all matters that would be identified in an assurance work that aims to issue an opinion. If we had carried out work with the aim of issuing an opinion, we could have identified other issues or possible distortions in the information contained in the Report. Therefore, we do not express an opinion on this information. Additionally, Sicredi's internal controls were not part of our limited assurance scope. Non-financial data is subject to further inherent limitations than financial data, given the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate these data. Qualitative interpretations of materiality, relevance and accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Additionally, we do not carry out any work on data reported for previous periods, nor in relation to future projections and goals.147 Annexes 146 Sustainability Report 2021 Credits General Coordination Fundação Sicredi Communication Coordination Superintendency of Brand, Communication and Segments Data source Sicredi GRI Consulting, Editorial Coordination and Project Management Ricca Sustainability Review Ricca Sustainability Graphic design and Layout Ricca Sustainability Photos Marco Photographer João Alves Bruna Scheidt Clarissa Londero For this report, photographic production was carried out respecting all security protocols recommended to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Sicredi Archive The photos from our archive used in this report were taken before the Covid-19 pandemic. Adobe Stock Corporate Information comunicacao_institucional@sicredi.com.br sistência@sicredi.com.br EY | 2nd data used to prepare the Report; (d) comparison of financial data with financial statements and/or accounting records. The limited assurance work included, also, adherence to the guidelines of the structure for preparing the GRI -Standards indicators, applicable in the elaboration of the information contained in the Report. We understand that the evidence obtained in our work was sufficient and appropriate to support our conclusion in a limited way. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less extensive than those applied in an assurance engagement that is The objective is to express an opinion on the information contained in the Report. Consequently, they do not enable us to obtain assurance that we are aware of all matters that would be identified in an assurance engagement that aims to issue an opinion. If we had carried out work with the aim of issuing an opinion, we could have identified other issues or possible distortions in the information contained in the Report. In this way, we do not express a opinion about this information. Additionally, Sicredi's internal controls were not part of our limited assurance scope. Non-financial data is subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given the nature and diversity of methods used to determine, calculate or estimate such data. Qualitative interpretations of materiality, relevance and accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Additionally, we did not carry out any work on data reported for previous periods, nor in relation to future projections and goals. Conclusion Based on the procedures carried out, described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that leads us to believe that the GRI indicators contained in the Sicredi Annual Sustainability Report, for the year ended December 31, 2021, have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with criteria, assumptions and methodologies for preparing the indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative - Standards (“Essential” reporting option). Porto Alegre (RS), March 22, 20 22 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S CRC 2SP015199/O -6 Leonardo Masseli Dutra Group of Specialists: Technical Reviewer Diego F. Pereira Partner Quality Reviewer -CRC –1SP264236/O -3 CONCLUSION Based In the procedures carried out, described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that leads us to believe that the GRI indicators contained in Sicredi's Annual Sustainability Report, for the year ended December 31, 2021, have not been prepared, in all relevant aspects, in accordance with criteria, premises and methodologies for preparing the indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative - Standards (“Essential” reporting option). EY | 2nd data used to prepare the Report; (d) comparison of financial data with the financial statements and/or accounting records. The limited assurance work also included adherence to the guidelines of the structure for preparing the GRI -Standards indicators, applicable in the preparation of the information contained in the Report. We understand that the evidence obtained in our work was sufficient and appropriate to support our conclusion in a limited way. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less extensive than those applied in an assurance work that aims to issue an opinion on the information contained in the Report. Consequently, they do not enable us to obtain assurance that we are aware of all matters that would be identified in an assurance engagement that aims to issue an opinion. If we had carried out work with the aim of expressing an opinion, we could have identified other matters or possible distortions in the information contained in the Report. Therefore, we do not express an opinion on this information. Additionally, Sicredi's internal controls were not part of our limited assurance scope. Non-financial data is subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given the nature and diversity of methods used to determine, calculate or estimate such data. Qualitative interpretations of materiality, Relevance and accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Additionally, we did not carry out any work on data reported for previous periods, nor in relation to future projections and goals. Conclusion Based on the procedures carried out, described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that leads us to believe that the GRI indicators contained in the Sicredi Annual Sustainability Report, for the year ended 31 December December 20 21, have not been prepared, in all relevant aspects, in accordance with the criteria, assumptions and methodologies for preparing the indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative - Standards (“Essential” reporting option). Porto Alegre (RS), March 22, 20 22 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S CRC 2SP015199/O -6 Leonardo Masseli Dutra Group of Specialists: Technical Reviewer Diego F. Pereira Partner Quality Reviewer -CRC –1SP264236/O -3