CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SUL MINAS DO RIO GRANDE DO SUL AND MINAS GERAIS — SICREDI SUL MINAS RS/MG CNPJ no. 87.784088/0001-68 CALL NOTICE (;TO THE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Digital Modality 0 President of Cooperaliva de Crédito , Poupanga e Investimento Sul Minas do Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais - Sicredi Sul Minas RS/MG, using the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the delegates of the nucleus elected in the respective Assemblies, which on this date total 53 (fifty-three), to meet in an ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY to be held on April 28, 2022, at 5:30 pm (Seventeen hours and thirty minutes) on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in a second call, at 6:30 pm (eighteen hours and thirty minutes), with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 7:30 pm (nineteen hours and thirty minutes). with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the Cooperative headquarters, located at Av. Lido Tagliari, no. 1275, Centro neighborhood, in the municipality of Estagao/RS, to all delegates, simultaneously, using Plaiaforma Microsoft Teams*, to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2021, comprising: management report; _ balance of the two semesters of the corresponding exercise’. statement of surpluses or losses; auditor's opinion; opinion of the Supervisory Board. Disposal of leftovers; Election of the members of the Fiscal Council; Setting the value of Attendance Certificates for members of the Fiscal Council; Homologation of the Perlencer Regulation; ozgngsgngxzmnocm . Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Estagao/RS, March 24, 2022. 0 "I,U«lL( Euzebio Jo and Rod heiro President OBSERVA<;6Es: 1. The Assembly will be held in a format digital, whose modality is supported by art. 43~A of Law 5764/71, as well as in DREI Normative Instruction No. 81, of June 10, 2020. 2. *Instructions for participation and voting on the Teams Platform: instructions for participation Instructions and 0 access link 2: General Assembly, via email or WhatsApp, accessible via browser or smartphone application compatible with IOS and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates who identify themselves. as well as exercising their right to voice and vote, through remote action through audio, video and chat. In real time. To access, simply click on the link and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 3. The Assembly will be recorded electronically. /£1. ‘ EuzébioJ.Rodi eiro President Sicredi Sul Minas RSIMG