1 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP SCHOOL ANNUAL REPORT 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 2Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP CONTENTS Message from the President Board of DirectorsFiscal Council and Executive BoardTimeline Numbers Financial statements (System and Central PR/SP/ RJ) Area of ​​ActionHighlights 2022 Strategy and Sustainability Our sustainability strategy Relationships and Cooperativism Crescer ProgramComites Solutions Responsible Members' ProfileCooperation at Ponta do LápisGreen EconomyEmployees' ProfileLocal development A União Faz a VidaSchool CooperativesSocial FundC-Day Expansion OpeningsPromotion Savings Awarded Financial Statements Balance SheetAdded income to societyStrategic planningSocial investment............... ...........................4 .................... .................8 .....................9 .........................................................10 .....................................12 .............................................................14 ........................................................16 ....................18 .....................................................24 .....................................................................27 ...............................................31 ................................32 ........................................................33 .........................................39 ...................................................40 ...........................................42 .............................................................44 ..........................................................................45 ...........................................................48 ..............................53 ................................................56 ..................................57 ............... ..........................58 ......................... .........................593Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 3 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 4 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/ SPMessage from the President We have reached the end of another financial year, in a year in which the Sicredi System reached a very special milestone. There are 120 years of a history that began with Father Theodor Amstad and was structuring itself over time and consolidating itself more and more, becoming the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. Operating as a system, we have a national presence and local service, which brings security to members when depositing their money and making transactions with the cooperative, generating jobs, income for municipalities and development for communities. Carrying out its activities with seriousness and commitment to its members, the Sicredi System is approaching the mark of 7 million members, R$300 billion in assets, R$6 billion in net surplus and 40 thousand direct jobs. These are robust numbers that accredit the System not only for being the precursor, but also for the milestones achieved. Added to this, we have good service, technological tools and complete security in internal controls and in the relationship with the Central Bank. It is a strong system, which has results and is auditable, safe and transparent, of which members are owners. Set in this century-old history, our Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP is 37 years old and benefits from all the experience of what has been built over 120 years, with emphasis on greater growth in the last two decades. With strategic investments, our cooperative has been achieving extraordinary numbers, which exceed R$3 billion in total assets, generating more than 550 direct jobs. And our focus is strong on people, with constant training, valuing employees for better service and modernizing our structures to welcome members. Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP is focused on expansion. We work with our feet on the ground and a lot of awareness, but we are a bold cooperative. We have an opening plan that has been followed, as approved by members. During the 2022 financial year, we expanded our area of ​​operation in the state of São Paulo to large municipalities. It's challenging and Now the agencies go through a period of viability so that we can then begin to reap the fruits of these investments, returning results to our members. This planning involves not only the issue of strategy, but also the financial aspect, with the creation of the Development Fund, which allows us to invest with more security and negotiating power. BALANCE The balance we make allows us to say that the year 2022 was different, since, in the previous period, we had placed many resources available so that members could maintain their businesses amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, in 2022, we will face the consequences of this difficult time worldwide, with more defaults. Even so, our Agnaldo Esteves, President of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP5 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPcooperativa obtained the same result as the previous year, with the remuneration of the Share Capital and all accounts strictly up to date, with a result of R$70 million. This vision of the cooperative of remaining alongside its members, offering renegotiated solutions, with the best possible rates, was fundamental, and in this way we continued to fulfill our social role. So, we have a lot to celebrate. Other achievements can be highlighted: we closed the year with 100 thousand members and more than R$1.8 billion in credit operations, extraordinary liquidity. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PILLARS The excellent numbers achieved enable us to invest in social and environmental pillars, fueling this virtuous cycle. In the environmental aspect, in addition to the Headquarters, our agencies now receive photovoltaic panels for the production of renewable energy, resulting in savings and sustainability. This reinforces a change in consciousness, fueled by our Sustainability Committee, which brings innovations, showing society that Sicredi cares about sustainability, generating its energy, using recyclable paper, reusing equipment, thinking about the future by leaving a better planet for new generations. In relation to the social sphere, we took important steps during the 2022 financial year. We founded the Crescer School Cooperative, based in Arapongas/PR, being the first School Cooperative in Central PR/SP/RJ, which is responsible not only for spreading cooperativism , but to value these young people aged 14 to 16, who can learn about the importance of cooperating, of being close. The initiative is already a success becoming an example for the other cooperatives in Central and shows our systemic vision, that it is possible to work together and, thus, build a future. We continue to carry out the A União Faz a Vida Program, which is present in more than 50% of our area of ​​activity, disseminating cooperative education in schools. By carrying out the Grow and Belong Programs, we get even closer to associates, who learn the importance of cooperating to prosper. We also made progress with the Committees Women and Young People, we strengthened this action with the cooperative, resulting in excellent results, with appreciation and active participation, including in the administration of the cooperative, establishing leaders in order to guarantee the continuity of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP. Through the Social Fund, in which we were also protagonists, implementing it in our Center, we serve many institutions by investing financial resources used to acquire various items, contributing to our communities with more than R$1.25 million to date. Empreenda Sicredi provided training for more than 350 people, with the cooperative investing in guidance for the best use in its activities, so that they can learn to multiply their income and leverage their business. FUTURE For 2023, we will continue working and increasingly seeking the development of the cooperative, with the aim of it becoming the main financial institution for our members, and that this joint workforce multiply in results for everyone. Our special thanks to God, for the gift of life; to our members, for trusting the cooperative; to the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, for their commitment to offering the best solutions; to directors, who help guide our actions among employees and advisors; to employees who, even in difficult times, do not lose their optimism and perseverance in continuing to work; to our Central and the Bank Cooperative, which offer the best paths with systemic support; to our family members for all their daily support; and to the community in general, who welcome Sicredi, who recommend the cooperative to acquaintances, who leave testimonials about their experiences on our social networks. Thank you very much!For 2023, we will continue working and increasingly seeking to develop the cooperative, with the aim of it becoming the main financial institution for our members6 Report Annual 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Important names in cooperatives Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen (1818 – 1888) Founder of the first credit cooperative in the world in 1864, in Germany, Raiffeisenbank. Robert Owen (1771 – 1858) Considered by many one of the fathers of cooperativism. He was born in England and tried to organize worker cooperatives. Franz-Hermann Schulze - Delitzsch (1808 – 1883) Considered the precursor of cooperativism, he created the first credit cooperative urban, in 1852, in the German city of Delitzsch. Charles Howarth (1877-1950) Idealist of the Rochdalle Equitable Society, the first modern cooperative. Father Theodor Amstad (1851 – 1938) Founder of the first credit cooperative in South America, Caixa de Economia e Empréstimos Amstad, currently Sicredi Pioneira.Mario Kruel Guimarães (1924-2011) Precursor of contemporary credit cooperatives, which led to restructuring of the credit cooperative system, with the creation, in the early 1980s, of the RS Credit Cooperatives Central – Cocecrer/RS, currently the Sicredi System. Eliza Brierley First woman to join a cooperative, 82 years before women gained the right to vote. 7 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Cooperatives: 120 years of Sicredi Alphonse Desjardins (1854 – 1920) Founder of the first credit cooperative in the Americas, Caixa Popular Ahphonse Desjardins. Roberto Rodrigues was in charge of presidency of the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB) between 1985 and 1991 and was the only non-European president of the ICA since its foundation in 1895. In 2012, he was appointed UN ambassador for cooperatives. In 2022, Sicredi completed 120 years of history. A journey that was closely connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for members and the communities where we are present. Our origins happened with the founding of the first Credit Cooperative in Brazil, the Amstad Savings and Loans Bank, in 1902, by the Jesuit priest Theodor Amstad and a group of German immigrants, small landowners and rural workers from Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul, who started a cooperative enterprise that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country. Over the years, the model was taken forward, overcame the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside he reached the cities, maintaining the purpose of adding income through investments and shared resources, with equal participation and benefits for all associates and promoting quality of life. Our cooperative essence Our business model creates a virtuous cycle that encourages investment in the cooperative and the use of financial solutions that promote member businesses, community growth and the development of people in the region. A phrase by Father Theodor Amstad, precursor of credit cooperativism in Brazil, summarizes this view: “Not just working for myself, but for others or for the common good”. We are very proud of the path we have taken and the trajectory we have built over these years. Knowing our history inspires us to continue taking new steps and generating impact for society, through the essence of cooperativism.8Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 8 Agnaldo Esteves President Edilson Treuk Apucarana/PR José Maria Estrada Kaloré/PRFernando Lopes Mandaguari/PR Luiz Roberto Felipette Apucarana/PRJoão Paulo de Oliveira São Pedro do Ivaí/PR Matias José Knoor Rolândia/PRJosé Angelo de Faria Faxinal/PR Meire Cristina Zanin Arapongas/PRJosé Nialdo FavoretoVice-PresidentCouncil of Administration management 2021-20259Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Ivã Dionisio Mendes Apucarana/PR Osvaldo Eidam Ortigueira/PR Marcelo Filinberti De Bortoli Executive DirectorLaercio Scarpaneze Marialva/PR Lara Estela Rinaldo Sorocaba/SP Renato Lazareti Venancio Business DirectorOswaldo Sinkoc California/PR Arlindo Justen Marilândia do Sul/PR Cristiano Martinelli Operations DirectorAnderson Alves de Queiroz Regional Development Manager SPFiscal Council management 2021-2023 Executive Board EFFECTIVES REPLACEMENTS TOGETHER, BUILDING OUR HISTORY 1985 2023 Rochdalle, England. The Equitable Society of Pioneers of Rochdalle, on the initiative of 28 workers (27 men and 1 woman); Flammersfeld, Germany. First Rural Credit Cooperative, by Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen, with the term "credit cooperative" only being established in 1864, in Heddesdorf, Germany; International Cooperative Alliance; #somoscoopQuebec, Canada. First Credit Cooperative in the Americas. Alphonse Desjardins Popular Box; Nova Petrópolis, Rio Grande do Sul. We created the First Credit Cooperative in Brazil: Caixa de Economia e Empréstimos Amstad, by Father Theodor Amstad, currently Sicredi Pioneira RS; Creation of Law 5,764/71, establishing the legal regime for cooperative societies; We created the Central Credit Cooperative of RS (COCECRER), with the union of 9 cooperatives, articulated by Mario Kruel Guimarães; In January, bringing together 10 credit cooperatives from Paraná, we created COCECRER/PR, currently Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ ;On September 3rd, with the initiative of 34 farmers, we were born as the Mandaguari Rural Credit Cooperative, currently Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP; We joined COCECRER/PR to the Sicredi System. Our cooperative is now called Sicredi Mandaguari; We created Banco Cooperativo Sicredi; From Sicredi Mandaguari, we became Sicredi Terra Forte; We approved FREE ADMISSION at the general meeting of Sicredi Terra Forte; Sicredi Terra Forte and Sicredi Centro Norte come together to form our Sicredi Agroempresarial. At the In the same year, we established Sicredi Participações S/A; We opened the new headquarters of Sicredi Agroempresarial, one of the largest in the Sicredi System. We approved, in assembly, the expansion to the state of São Paulo; We started expanding to the state of São Paulo, in the regions of Sorocaba, Barueri and Osasco; We started the Women's Committee and the Youth Committee, in the search for new leaders. We were the first cooperative in Central PR/SP/RJ to implement the Social Fund; With Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP, In December 2022, we reached the historic milestone of 100 thousand members in the cooperative. TOGETHER, BUILDING OUR HISTORY 1985 2023 Rochdalle, England. The Equitable Society of Pioneers of Rochdalle was formed, on the initiative of 28 workers (27 men and 1 woman); Flammersfeld, Germany. First Rural Credit Cooperative, by Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen, and the term "credit cooperative" was only established in 1864, in Heddesdorf, Germany; International Cooperative; #somoscoopQuebec, Canada. First Credit Cooperative in the Americas. Alphonse Desjardins Popular Box; Nova Petrópolis, Rio Grande do Sul. We created the First Credit Cooperative in Brazil: Caixa de Economia e Empréstimos Amstad, by Father Theodor Amstad, currently Sicredi Pioneira RS;Creation of Law 5,764/71, establishing the legal regime for cooperative societies; We created the RS Central Credit Cooperative (COCECRER), with the union of 9 cooperatives, articulated by Mario Kruel Guimarães;In January, bringing together 10 credit cooperatives from Paraná, we created COCECRER/PR, currently Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ;On September 3rd, with the initiative of 34 farmers, we were born as a Cooperative of Mandaguari Rural Credit, currently Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP; We joined COCECRER/PR to the Sicredi System. Our cooperative is now called Sicredi Mandaguari; We created Banco Cooperativo Sicredi; By Sicredi Mandaguari, We started calling ourselves Sicredi Terra Forte; We approved FREE ADMISSION at the general meeting of Sicredi Terra Forte; Sicredi Terra Forte and Sicredi Centro Norte come together to form our Sicredi Agroempresarial. In the same year, we established Sicredi Participações S/A; We opened the new headquarters of Sicredi Agroempresarial, one of the largest in the Sicredi System. We approved, in assembly, the expansion to the state of São Paulo; We started expanding to the state of São Paulo, in the regions of Sorocaba, Barueri and Osasco; We started the Women's Committee and the Youth Committee, in the search for new leaders. We were the first cooperative in Central PR/SP/RJ to implement the Social Fund; With Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP, in December 2022, we reached the historic mark of 100 thousand members in the cooperative. .5 billion Credit Operations R$ 160.6 billion Net Worth R$ 30.6 billion Funds Raised R$ 278.7 billion Result R$ 5.909 billion Cooperatives 105 Branches 2,411 Employees 38,832Assets R$ 62.8 billion Credit Operations R$ 37 billion Net Worth R $6.85 billion Result R$1.22 billion 13Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving quality of life of associates and society. Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective System. Values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for standards official and internal;• Effectiveness and transparency in management. Because if a large stone gets in the way and 20 people want to pass, they won't be able to if they try to remove it individually one by one. But if 20 people come together and push at the same time, under the guidance of one of them, they will be able to jointly move the stone away and open the path for everyone.” Father Theodor Amstad, founder of the first credit cooperative in South America, Caixa de Economia e Emprestios Amstad, current Sicredi Pioneer Inspirational Purpose 203014Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Area of ​​Activity Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP OUR NUMBERS100,040 associates (growth of 11.53% compared to 2021) R$3.3 billion in Total Assets* (growth of 32% compared to 2021) *Total Assets + Savings + LCA+ Directed and Co-obligations + Funds and Pensions - Savings Credit - LCA Credit15Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP R$ 1.8 billion in Credit Operations (28.57% growth compared to 2021) R$290 million Shareholders' Equity (20.68% growth compared to 2021)Result of* R$72.4 million (similar result to 2021) *Before statutory allocations 536 Employees (growth of 32.35% in/uni00A0relation/uni00A0a/uni00A02021)16Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Highlights 2022 Selo Clima Paraná For the second consecutive year, our Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ received the Selo Clima Paraná, in category A – Market Internal – for eco-efficiency actions developed to neutralize greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted by Sicredi Cooperatives operating in Paraná. Top Marketing The Sicredi & Smurfs Project: together for sustainable development won the Top Marketing Award 2022, in the Social category, as a success story recognized by the Association of Sales and Marketing Directors of Brazil – Paraná Section (ADVB-PR). Best Performance Award The video call functionality in Libras (Brazilian Sign Language) for Sicredi's WhatsApp won the Gold trophy in the Best Performance Award, in the “Innovation for customer/consumer service – digital service channels and platforms” category. Época Negócios 360º Sicredi ranked 8th as the largest bank in Brazil by total assets, according to the Época Negócios 360º yearbook. The institution also reached the positions of 6th largest by deposit and 8th largest in total assets. ESG Rating With a score of 15.9 in In an assessment by Morningstar Sustainalytics, Sicredi was considered to have “Low Risk” of suffering financial impacts from ESG factors, ranking among the 20 best “Diversifi ed Banks” out of the 400 evaluated globally. GPTW Sicredi was awarded 4th place as the best company to work for in the “Financial Institutions – Credit Cooperatives” category, by GPTW (Great Place Work), which evaluates companies on a national, regional, sectoral and thematic basis. Digital Growth Award Sicredi’s “CPR Fácil” was awarded at the World Conference of Credit Cooperatives, in Glasgow, Scotland. The application won in the “2022 Digital Growth Award” category, which recognizes solutions that promote financial inclusion, innovation and scalability. Valor 1000 Sicredi ranked 8th in the “100 Largest Banks” category in the Valor 1000 yearbook, organized by Valor Econômico, which is considered one of the most important rankings in Brazil in terms of evaluating companies. Top Asset In the “Top Asset” ranking by Investidor Institucional magazine, Sicredi ranked 7th among the best fixed income fund managers. The publication highlights the capillarity of the cooperative system, which has 2,200 agencies spread across Brazil. Broadcast Projeções Award For the second consecutive year, Sicredi is recognized with 9th position in the Top General of the Broadcast Projeções Award, which brings together the institutions that most accurately estimated the macroeconomic variables (IPCA, Selic rate, exchange rate, GDP, among others). Central Bank economic projections Among more than 100 financial organizations in the country, Sicredi appeared in two relevant categories in the Central Bank's economic projections ranking for the fifth consecutive year, being represented by Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and Sicredi Asset.17 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SSP Sustainability Strategy18 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agro-business PR/SPOur Sustainability Strategy At Sicredi, we operate in line with the main global concepts regarding Sustainable Development, generating value for our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our incorporation we have kept a close eye on our impacts. This concern was materialized in a robust sustainability strategy, which incorporates the best management practices on the topic and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. The acronym ESG, from the English Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance, refers to environmental, social and governance points. ESG seeks to demonstrate that the long-term survival of organizations depends on them also generating value in these three aspects. Our strategy incorporates the “ESG vision” of the market, understanding it as the management itself for the sustainability of the business. The three strategic guidelines essential aspects of Sicredi: Mission, Vision and Values, guide the conduct of our business and guide our development in practice. Based on this, we build the documents and policies that guide our strategy, decision-making, operations and conduct. The Sustainability Policy establishes the principles that guide us in all areas of the business and in our relationships with interested parties, with the aim of expanding our positive impact and reducing our adverse impact. For guide our sustainable development strategy, we establish our sustainability drivers and focal themes. 19Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Commitment to the Global Compact and the SDGs Our sustainability strategy is reinforced through our external commitments, which connect our guidelines on the topic to the main global initiatives in the sustainable development agenda. Since 2020, we have been members of the Global Compact, a voluntary action by United Nations (UN), which provides principles, guidelines, information and tools for promoting Sustainable Development and Citizenship. By joining the Global Compact, we also assume the responsibility of contributing to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, outlined by the UN to engage organizations in goals such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources by 2030. Sicredi is certiﬁ ed by Rating ESG The System Sicredi received a score of 15.9 in an assessment from Morningstar Sustainalytics, being considered a company with “Low Risk” of suffering financial impacts arising from ESG factors. With the approval, Sicredi is among the 20 best “Diversified Banks” – of the 400 evaluated globally by the ESG risk classifier, in October 2022. Among the issues evaluated, it is worth highlighting Sicredi's positive performance in the Corporate Governance category , for its governance indicators ESG, sustainability policies and fiscal transparency, as well as being a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Sustainability Committee At Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP, the Sustainability Committee holds quarterly meetings in order to discuss issues relevant to the cooperative's sustainable growth strategy. Among the themes raised in 2022 are Financial Justice – ESG, New Financial Structures and Community Development – ​​and Technology and Social Innovation: Digitalization and Humanization, Social Innovation and Impact, and Emerging Technologies that make a difference. In a strategy to make all employees aware of these issues, we brought the SDG 2030 Program to the cooperative, through lectures on the following themes: • Management of the Future, with Pedro Nascimento • Leadership and Conscious Culture, with Stephanie Crispino • Expansion and New Public, with Samuel Emílio • Seniors and intergenerational action, with Sérgio C Serapião20Report Annual 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 20Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP We have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes, which are Sicredi's material themes, that is, the most relevant themes for Sicredi's sustainability. Spread cooperativism and sustainability Promote financial education Promote the local economy Promote financial inclusion Promote the development of people Contribute to the development of communitiesOffer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Ensure integrated risk management Promote eco-efficient management Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management Promote inclusion and diversity Strengthen our governance model Promote financial education 1 2. 3. 4. 9. 10. 11. 12.5. 6. 7. 8.Our DIRECTORS21Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 21Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP To direct our Sustainability Strategy and support us in the evolution of sustainability guidelines, we rely on the Sustainable Development Framework. The Reference is the basis for Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, providing indicators that allow us to measure our sustainability performance at national, regional and local levels. Monitoring these results can help us identify points where we have the opportunity to advance the Sustainability agenda.Reference SUSTAINABLE Development22Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Training in anti-corruption proceduresGHG Emissions Inventory Scope 1, 2 and 3 Gold Seal, published on the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program Platform Financial inclusion through presence in municipalities of small size and/or without the presence of other FIs Salaries, benefits and employee training Value of Savings Generated Credit for the local economyPartnership with local suppliers Volunteer movement Distribution of results to members Cultural Projects Incentive LawsSponsorships, donations and coursesCredit for small farmersTCFD recommendations in the risk analysis of the credit portfolioApproval of suppliers with Socio-environmental criteriaSocio-environmental Risk Training Portfolio of Products and Services in the Economy Verde Credit for enterprises led by women100% of operation's GHG emissions neutralized through regional and certified carbon credit projects Financing for solar energy generationSocio-environmental Risk Management Policy and StandardSustainable constructionsSocio-environmental Risk Management Procedures Governance PortalAction Platform Sicredi LibrarySustainable Development ReferenceEducation Platform The Trajectory Sicredi Sustainability governance: committees sustainability at 3 levels Sustainability Guidelines for the business Memorial SicrediSustainability Policy Transparency and Accountability - GRI Report Lenses of Vision: SICREDI /SP Understand to GROW! The Crescer Program is our cooperative education initiative open to everyone: members, non-members, counselors, core coordinators and collaborators. On this front, we provide experiences so that people can learn more about how we work, understanding who we are, what motivates us to do what we do, why we exist and our differences.1. UNDERSTAND Getting to know people and understanding the reality of each one of them. Thus, we were able to guide the program to achieve our objective: educating members, non-members, counselors, core coordinators and collaborators. 2. INFORM We feel more secure when we know about the subject. We address and expand understanding of cooperative societies, their functioning, benefits and differences in relation to other financial institutions. 3. COOPERATE Through cooperative education, we bring knowledge to everyone who interacts with our business. Information and cooperativism are the key to the growth of an increasingly prosperous society, bringing benefits to everyone who is part of it. OUR PILLARS ARE: Crescer Week Did you know? There were 1,878 members trained in the “Grow Up Week” meetings. In October, we held the Grow Week, which aims to promote knowledge actions about cooperativism for our members. There were 1,878 associates and collaborators trained in meetings held in 33 agencies, spread across the states of São Paulo and Paraná. On those occasions, employees gave lectures telling the story of the cooperativism and Sicredi. The initiative also took place throughout Brazil, with the theme “Cooperating is Contagious”. Along with the week's actions, which take place annually, we celebrate International Credit Union Day (DICC), celebrated on the third Thursday of October, which in 2022 occurred on 10/20. The date, organized by the World Council of Credit Cooperatives (WOCCU), highlighted the contribution and positive transformations generated by the segment in society based on the motto “Empower your financial future with a credit cooperative”. who we are, what motivates us to do what we do, why we exist and our differences. 25Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Assembly Process 2022 Did you know? More than 420 thousand people participated in Sicredi System assemblies in 2022, more than 1 million in the last 4 years. There is only cooperation with PARTICIPATION! The feeling of belonging is extremely important for any environment, especially in a cooperative environment. And our associates make cooperation happen through democratic participation. The Pertencer Program exists with this objective: to engage our members to actively participate in assemblies, meetings and decision-making moments. Our 2022 assembly process took place in a hybrid format and brought together 2,868 members eligible to vote at the Core Assembly, held on March 23rd. The Belonging Program platform was used to hold the meeting, highlighting the leading role of members in the cooperative's decision-making process, the easy access to the broadcast and the interactivity of participants through live chat. At the event, President Agnaldo Esteves presented five agendas for the year 2021, all of which were approved. The cooperative achieved a net result of R$72.8 million, of which R$13 million was divided among the members, with more than R$2.5 billion in assets, R$1.4 billion in credit operations and a net worth of R$240 million. “Even in a difficult time for the national economy, Sicredi has grown by an average of more than 30% each year, with the difference that the member is the owner, participates in decisions and results and has a closer and more human relationship”, commented Agnaldo Esteves, President of the cooperative. Check out how the meetings of the 2022 Assembly Process went26Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Accountability 2022 Immersion in CooperativesDuring the month of August, we carried out the Accountability for the First Semester of 2022, in person, and brought together more than 1,800 members from 33 cooperative agencies. The event took place in four municipalities in Paraná and three in the state of São Paulo, namely: Mauá da Serra/PR, Mandaguari/PR, Arapongas/PR, Apucarana/PR, Sorocaba/SP, São Roque/SP and Barueri/SP. “For us, Accountability is a very important moment, as it presents to the member everything that is happening in the cooperative, keeping them up to date with the responsible exercise of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP” – Agnaldo Esteves, President of the cooperative + 2,800 members participated in the 2022 Assemblies + 1,800 people attended the presentation of the results and actions developed by the cooperative, in the Financial Statements of the First Semester With the aim of providing an Immersion to Credit Cooperatives, on the 21st, 22nd and 23rd of September We took our Core Coordinators to Rio Grande do Sul. Among several points, they visited the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS) in Porto Alegre and the imperial line, in Nova Petrópolis, where they visited the Caixa Rural de Nova Petrópolis building, formerly Caixa of Economics and Loans Amstad and current Sicredi Pioneira. Access the QR Code and watch the video of the Accountability for the First Semester of 202227Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Our purpose with the Committee Jovem, founded 5 years ago, aims to attract and maintain young people at Sicredi, with educational purposes, through actions aimed at personal and professional development, which arouse their interest in participating in a cooperative financial organization, making them promoters cooperativism and social protagonists in the regions where they live. We know that today's protagonists are already building tomorrow and with our partnership they will go further. “Foster the growth of our young people, understanding their points of view on the most varied subjects, and encouraging their personal and professional development contributes not only to their individual goals, but to the entire community around them”, highlighted Marcelo Filinberti De Bortoli, Executive Director. In the Youth Committee we had face-to-face meetings resuming, with reflections on credit cooperatives and related issues. In total, there are 91 young people registered on the Committee, who voluntarily made themselves available to participation in the program. More protagonism, more growth. More than 1,400 young people have already been through the Committee throughout Brazil. In total, there are 22 committees formed by cooperatives in the country. I am very happy to be part of the Young Committee. I had incredible experiences on how to take care of my money, ideas for sustainability, I learned about the history of cooperativism. It is an opportunity that is worth it and brings a lot of learning. I thank Sicredi and you can count on me whenever you need. Cooperate is too good! Vinícius Santos Furquim - Youth Committee (Piedade/SP) Be part too! Young people are the protagonists now. They are always involved in change, something essential for cooperation. We are big, but we can be bigger! Look for your agency and find out how to participate in the Youth Committee. Check out how the Youth and Women Committee Meeting went in 2022 by scanning this QR Code28Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP The Women's Committee exists to promote equity in gender, the empowerment and training of women so that they can increasingly assume leading and leadership roles in cooperatives and communities. In our cooperative, we hold periodic meetings and training with members who participate on a voluntary basis. Our in-person meetings returned in 2022, with emphasis on the event that featured the illustrious participation of actress Denise Fraga, who spoke about human connections in digital times. More protagonism, more growth. More than 2,500 women participate in the Women in Brazil Committee, in more than 40 committees formed by cooperatives in eight states. It was incredible to make new friends and participate in the events offered by the cooperative. Sicredi gives a voice and a place to us, women, focusing on creating a space of our own with lectures, courses and experiences to train female leaders. Anyone who has the opportunity should embrace it because it will be extremely important for their training. personal and professional, just as it is for me. Thaís Elides Trierweiler - Women's Committee (Faxinal/PR) Be part too! Look for your agency and find out how to participate in the Women’s Committee. Access this QR Code and see more details about Summit Mulher 2022 29 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Proximity that STRENGTHENSCafé with the President Visit local collaborators and coordinators, in order to learn even more about the internal needs and challenges of each agency and municipality, is what motivates the holding of “Coffee with the President”, which took place again in 2022. Five agencies were visited throughout the year, in the months of May, June and July. For 2023, the expectation is to continue with the initiative in our area of ​​operation, in the states of Paraná and São Paulo. I'm in the State of São Paulo, at the Barueri agency (Alphavil - le), and even kilometers away, our Management and Presidency visits us several times a year, valuing proximity to all the regions in which we operate. This way, we feel close and supported whenever we need it. In 2022, our agency hosted Coffee with the President, a unique moment of closeness with each employee and concern for the well-being of the agency, listening to each one, sharing their story and cases of good practices, an attitude that made us inspires and guides us in the certainty that we are on the right path. Yuri Negov, Business Manager PJ I, Barueri/SP Café with the President in Faxinal/PRCafé with the President in Barueri/SP30 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPSoluções Responsáveis ​​“Environmental”31Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP For 37 years we have valued each member who is part of our cooperative business model. We believe that doing things together makes a difference and that the strength of the collective is capable of transforming our world. Therefore, we want to bring people together and recognize the collective, respecting the individuality of each one, in a community that cares about the good of all. Profile of Members NUMBER OF MEMBERS Individuals: Legal Entities: Total members: 85,742 14,298100,040 Up to 1 year: 12,456 From 1 to 3 years: 22,762 From 3 to 5 years: 21,486 From 5 to 10 years: 25,227 From 10 to 20 years: 15,774 Over 20 years: 2,335 GENDER ( INDIVIDUALS ) COOPERATIVE TIME ( INDIVIDUALS ) Men Women Others Up to one year From 1 to 3 years From 3 to 5 years From 5 to 10 years From 10 to 20 years Over 20 years Men up to 30 years Men from 30 to 50 years Men over 50 years Women up to 30 yearsWomen from 30 to 50 yearsWomen over 50 yearsOthers up to 30 yearsOthers from 30 to 50 years60.13% 12.45%12.24%0.06%0.02%39.79% 22.75%28.24%0 .08% 21.48%19.65%8.39% 25.22%18.97% 15.77%12.43% 2.33%32Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Together, we design a MORE PROSPEROUS life! The “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program is a financial education initiative by Sicredi to spark a change in the behavior of adults, teenagers and children, improving habits for a more sustainable economic life. We want to help transform the lives of people in the communities in which we operate by providing more information, knowledge and good practices to improve our relationship with money. To this end, we participate once again from the National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week), an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF), which took place in December. In total, we impacted 4,101 people, including children, teenagers, adults and elderly people in our area of ​​operation, developing 113 actions. Did you know? The “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program is rich in content for different audiences and has a methodology supported by concepts from behavioral sciences, considering emotional issues involved in decision making and helping to achieve financial balance. 33 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Green Economy Green economy is the classification given to financial products and services that enable the improvement of humanity's well-being and social equality, while significantly reducing environmental risks and scarcity ecological. Its main pillars are low carbon emissions, efficient use of resources and social inclusion. Some examples of our products offered: Credit for Solar Energy Credit for Solar Energy has become one of our main products linked to the green economy. Through this solution, members can obtain credit to purchase equipment and technology to capture solar energy and generate clean electricity in their homes, businesses and rural properties. Renewable Energy Credit As another important option offered to members, the Renewable Energy Credit is intended to finance the acquisition and installation of equipment, works and projects to obtain electrical energy from renewable sources, which do not generate major negative environmental impacts. Sustainable Consortium Thinking about the socio-environmental impact of our products and services, we have the Sustainable Consortium, which is focused on the acquisition and construction of container houses and investments in eco-efficient solutions, such as water treatment and sewage, energy efficiency and wind and solar energy generation.Credit for Family Farming Credit for Family Farming contributes to income generation and social development of communities. The segment is one of the main responsible for food production in Brazil and around the world, with potential for implementing sustainable management aimed at reducing environmental impacts. Microcredit Financing aimed at granting credit to meet needs finances of individuals and/or legal entities undertaking micro-sized productive activities, using a methodology based on relationships with entrepreneurs in the location where the economic activity is carried out. 34 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Investing in solar energy is INVESTING IN THE FUTURE Solar energy, also known by many as photovoltaic energy, is a renewable, inexhaustible and clean source of energy, depending exclusively on the sun's rays to power homes, businesses and establishments in general with electricity. Thinking about sustainability and caring for the planet, we took the initiative to implement the photovoltaic system in our agencies within our area of ​​operation, in the states of Paraná and São Paulo. Total of R$3,548,422 invested in the project. Installation of 2,041 photovoltaic panels. 25 agencies covered so far. ADVANTAGES OF SOLAR ENERGY • Cost Reduction: With solar energy you have a reduction of up to 95% in electricity bill costs. Furthermore, the system requires low maintenance and can last more than 25 years. • Sustainability: Photovoltaic energy helps to alleviate the use of other types of electrical generation that depend on exhaustible sources, such as hydroelectric plants. Thus, its use constitutes clean and renewable energy. • Shared energy: Through shared generation of solar energy, it is possible for two or more consumers to share the energy and the costs of a single system, as long as they are in the same permission area as the distributor. • Valuation: Installing the system can increase the value of a property by up to 10%, bringing more practicality to a potential buyer and making the location more attractive, if your intention is to rent. 35 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPLocal “Social” development36 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPFostering the local economy Building, together, a society MORE PROSPEROUS! Interest in the community is part of our cooperative principles, and exercising our role as a cooperative, we are concerned with developing activities, actions and mechanisms to promote the local economy and build, in practice, a more prosperous society. In addition to offering various financial services throughout 2022 and supporting social institutions in our area of ​​operation, we launched a development program aimed at micro-entrepreneurs, which stood out in terms of our cooperative. Did you know? The Empreenda Sicredi Program is an important initiative that provides guidance to local micro-entrepreneurs and contributes to boosting the economy, promoting the appreciation of members. 37Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP EMPREENDA SICREDI – COUNT ON US! The “Empreenda Sicredi – Conta com nos” program was promoted for two months in partnership with the NGO Aliança Empreendedora, and consisted of training and developing microentrepreneurs. Among the topics covered at the meetings are: the entrepreneur's profile, how to price your product, financial education, innovation, investments and social media. As a result, on November 18th, the project's graduation ceremony was held, which certified more than 350 micro-entrepreneurs from the State of Paraná. I arrived to participate in the project unmotivated and ready to give up on my business, due to some problems I was facing. . But the Empreenda Sicredi made me come away with ideas and tips to give my business a makeover. I was very happy to participate in this project and I am immensely grateful to Sicredi for the opportunity. Elisangela Santos da Silva, merchant in Rio Bom/PR Do you live in the State of São Paulo? So, stay tuned, because in 2023 the project arrives in our area of ​​operation in SP! Follow the Graduation of Class I of Empreenda Sicredi by accessing this QR Code38 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPSicredi is classified in the GPTW ranking as Best Company to Work For Nomination in the Credit Cooperatives category proves the high level of work environment and engagement of professionals with the cooperative financial institution We were awarded as the best company to work for in the “Financial Institutions” category - Credit Cooperatives” by GPTW (Great Place To Work). The ranking is published annually and rewards the best companies to work for in national, regional, sectoral and thematic scope. The survey takes place in 53 countries and defines, in national rankings, whether the working environments of participating companies are excellent places to work professionally. The calculation is carried out through the Climate Survey and analysis of the Practice Book of each participating company. This year, the survey included the participation of 29 thousand Sicredi employees, who contributed their perception of what it is like to work at the institution, reaching a result (confidence index) of 89%, one percentage point above 2021. The highlights of this year's certification covered several dimensions of the questionnaire. In terms of “Pride”, for example, the phrase “Taking everything into account, I would say this is an excellent place to work” obtained a result of 96 points on a scale of 100, the same score given to the quote “When I see the What we do here, I feel proud.” In Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS), data that shows the level of employee engagement, the institution scored 83, two points higher than in 2021, a result considered within the zone of excellence. To determine this indicator, employees answered the question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how much would you recommend this company to a friend to work for?” 39 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPFunctional Staff Men Women Total Senior leadership 5 0 5 Management 35 30 65 Professionals 162 267 429 Interns 10 20 30 Young Apprentice 1 6 7 General 213 323 536 Age Group Men Women Total Up to 20 years old 11 16 27 From 21 to 30 years old 84 141 225 From 31 to 40 years old 70 123 193 From 41 to 50 years old 32 38 70 Over 50 years old 16 5 21 General 213 323 536 Total Education Masters 1 Postgraduate 170 Undergraduate 351 High School 14 General 536Internal actions Internally, we carry out several actions as a way of valuing the daily dedication and commitment of our employees. In 2022, we will deliver gifts on Women's Day, Mother's Day, Father's Day, Men's Day, among other commemorative dates. Satisfaction Index of our members NPS 73 We carried out, in the last 12 months, the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey with the aim of evaluating the experience of our members and collecting a series of relevant information regarding our products and services. This way, we are able to identify the number of satisfied and dissatisfied members, what we need to improve and what we can maintain. We concluded 2022 with an associate satisfaction rate of 73% - a number above our annual target of 70%. Our mission is to enhance the cultural transformation of our organization, making a difference in the lives of our employees. employees and making our work environment more dynamic and inclusive. Marcelo Filinberti De Bortoli - Executive Director NPS (Net Promoter Score) is a tool used by large companies to measure growth and customer loyalty. customers, based on a single question: “Considering a scale of 0 to 10, how much do you recommend the company to a colleague or friend?”. In addition, the NPS also identifies the member's profile, their satisfaction with each product they purchase from Sicredi and evaluates satisfaction regarding the main relationship channel that the member uses. Employee Profile40Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPAnnual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Graduate more COOPERATIVE citizens The União Faz a Vida Program is Sicredi's main education initiative and aims to build and experience important attitudes and values ​​for building a better world. We work with a methodology structure that is ours alone, with the great purpose of forming cooperative citizens. To achieve our objective of educating children and adolescents within the concepts we believe in, the A União Faz a Vida Program has two principles basics: cooperation and citizenship. WHAT DO WE UNDERSTAND BY COOPERATION? Cooperative education acts to educate young people so that they learn, in the school environment, to develop projects and initiatives capable of transforming society and meeting the desires and desires of communities. In this sense, cooperation only exists through coordinated actions between groups of people who have a common objective. WHAT DO WE THINK ABOUT CITIZENSHIP? We all have rights and duties. Have the total The ability to put these rights and duties into practice is the main meaning of citizenship. A democratic society – in which everyone has a voice – is the place where citizenship manifests itself. For the União Faz a Vida Program, citizenship only exists, in fact, when the following ethical values ​​are present: EQUALITY AND EQUITY; zRESPECT FOR DIVERSITY; zFREEDOM AND PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC LIFE.z There were more than 500 hours of training in 2022 z More than 400 projects developed, with more than 1,200 hours of pedagogical assistance z Holding “Coffee’s with the President” with the program’s educators, in the cities where PUFVAÇÕES: 41Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 41Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP z107 participating schools zMore than 1,000 educators involved zMore than 12 thousand children and adolescents in 15 municipalities: Paraná: Mandaguari, Marialva, Itambé, São João do Ivaí, Mauá da Serra, Rio Bom, Tamarana, Cambira, Arapongas, Faxinal, Ortigueira, Kaloré and Marilândia do Sul. São Paulo: Piedade. For 2023, we hope to expand the program to three more cities. PUFV REGIONAL MEETING On November 4th, we held the PUFV Regional Meeting, in Arapongas/PR, and brought together more than 850 teachers who are part of the project in Paraná. The objective of the event was to provide reflections on Education and highlight the importance of the work carried out in the 107 schools in which the program takes place, in addition to being a moment appreciation of educators. The meeting was attended by professor Juliano de Mello Costa, who debated “The Education of the Future and the Future of Education”, and professor Clóvis de Barros Filho, who gave his famous lecture “The life worth living ”. Throughout the reflections, the two teachers discussed the new challenges in Education in a globalized and digital world. Participating in the A União Faz a Vida Program was a wonderful experience, the children loved it and learned a lot from developing the project. I am grateful to have had the privilege of being part of this initiative because it was an incredible experience and a lot of learning! Sandra de Fátima Gil - Early Childhood Educator (Mandaguari/PR) Access this QR Code and see what the Regional Meeting of the A União Faz a Vida Program was like in 202242Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP COOPERATIVISM to go further! The “School Cooperatives” program is a Sicredi's educational initiative formed by the voluntary union of children and adolescents who carry out social, economic and cultural activities in accordance with their common, non-profit objectives. With the help of the Guiding Teacher, students create their own cooperatives focused on education and develop cooperative skills, knowledge and values. Voluntary elementary and high school students can participate, along with teachers, cooperatives Sicredi, Departments of Education, among other partners. + 4 thousand associated students throughout Brazil + 150 school cooperatives spread across the country + 80 participating municipalities Find out more about Cooperativa Escolar Crescer, the first in Central PR/SP/RJ , by scanning this QR CodeWe are preparing the leaders of the future, who will become committed adults. It is gratifying to see these children very well prepared and with a lot of courage to lead an assembly, take votes, speak in public. Manfred Dasenbrock, President of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ 43 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPA General Assembly of the Foundation of Cooperativa Escolar Crescer, from Casa do Bom Menino, in Arapongas/PR, took place on November 28th, becoming the first Sicredi School Cooperative in Paraná. The initiative involves 22 students from Projeto Crescer. At the Foundation Assembly, the Cooperative's Bylaws were approved, the election took place of the Presidency, the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, among other matters discussed. Student Giovana Gasparino Cestari, President of the cooperative's Foundation Committee, led the assembly's activities with the consideration and approval of the Bylaws, presentation of the cooperative's logo, elections and the subscription and payment of share capital. Maria Clara de Melo Trajano was elected President of the School Cooperative, and student Ana Luísa da Cunha Silva as Vice-President, student Raphael Kauã Faria da Silva as Secretary, and student Matheus Henrique Flejs Rodrigues as Coordinator of the Fiscal Council. My experience participating in the Crescer School Cooperative has been extremely positive. The feeling of being able to contribute to society is simply wonderful and I want other students to understand that we are agents in the construction of knowledge, and that this process takes place through will and discovery. The cooperative promotes activities to exercise responsible citizenship, aiming to train young people who are aware of their rights and duties, and that is fantastic! Maria Clara de Melo Trajano, President of the Crescer School Cooperative The First School Cooperative of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ is ours! It is very gratifying to see the motivation and determination of these young people who are experiencing cooperativism from an early age! The School Cooperative will certainly provide numerous benefits to their lives and of everyone they influence! Cristiano Martinelli, Director of Operations at Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 44Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP When WE JOIN FORCES, we multiply COOPERATION! Knowing that Sicredi is committed to local development has become increasingly common in the community. There are several projects, social programs and events that prove this engagement in such important areas as education and culture. And it's no different at Sicredi Agro-entrepreneurial PR/SP, where the commitment is consolidated every year. R$388,665.33 was invested in projects aimed at social inclusion, environment, security, education, sport, culture, among others, in 2022, through the “Social Fund. With the resources invested, renovations of parks and public places are planned, the purchase of construction materials for renovations of entities, the assembly of hundreds of basic food baskets, the acquisition of household appliances and educational toys for NGOs, purchase of wheelchairs and other mobility aids, among many other actions. With the Social Fund we can contribute to projects that have already positively impacted society and thus, aligning our interest in the community with the initiative of men and women who make a difference, we cooperate for a better world. Renato Lazareti, Business Director at Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP ATHLETE INCENTIVE In addition to the benefited entities, the Athlete Incentive is an action by the Social Fund that aims to guarantee personal maintenance for high-performance athletes who do not have sponsorship, so that they can dedicate themselves to sports training and participate in competitions. In 2022, six athletes were awarded a value of R$18,500.00. By being awarded the Social Fund, I was able to purchase technological swimming suits that improved my performance, making me stand out in important championships in 2022. I also had access to championships, as the expenses are high to participate. With the good results I achieved, I was called up to join the Brazilian team. I know that by working hard to achieve my dreams, with the support of the coach and the partnership with Sicredi, I can only grow. Emanuelle Victoria Sá de Araujo - Parathlete of the Social Fund (Mandaguari/PR) Scan this QR Code and learn more about the importance of the Social Fund in serving our communities 45 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPDia C The strength of cooperativism Cooperate Day, known as “C Day”, is an action promoted by the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) seeking to demonstrate the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. It is a great movement to encourage differentiated, continuous and transformative voluntary initiatives and a celebration of International Cooperative Day, which takes place annually on the first Saturday in July. Did you know? In 2022, we promoted 35 actions voluntary activities, involving our employees and agencies, spread across Paraná and São Paulo. In Brazil, there were more than 50 thousand volunteers and more than 259 thousand people impacted. Some of the initiatives were: assembly and delivery of basic food baskets to needy families, ecological walk, revitalization of multi-sports courts, collection of diapers, food, clothing and rations, recreational activities and socio-educational lectures. Our purpose with the actions developed on Day C is to show the strength of cooperation for local development and social transformation, making a difference through volunteering in the cities where we operate. Agnaldo Esteves, President of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP z30 thousand people directly benefited; z709 volunteers involved; zMore than 5 tons of non-perishable food collected, totaling 396 basic food baskets donated; z16,850 personal hygiene products; z360 pieces of clothing and 294 blankets donated to families needy; z180 liters of cleaning products; zR$ 62,590.32 fully invested in the actions of Day C. RESULTS OBTAINED Scan this QR Code and find out more about the actions of Day C of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP in 202246 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Training PROFESSIONAL TRAINING IN COOPERATIVISM CREDIT The inclusion of young people in cooperative financial institutions is a global challenge and, in recent years, we have developed initiatives to awaken talent and bring new generations to the sector. For this purpose, in a partnership between Sicredi, Sescoop and TECPUC, we offered professional training scholarships to 20 young people aged 15 to 24, preparing them for the job market. The course started on July 28th and will last twelve months, with more than 800 class hours per year, covering the themes: “Cooperativism”, “Credit Cooperativism”, and “Complementary Skills”, with live classes through an EAD platform. FINANCIAL MARKET CERTIFICATION The Financial Market Training program with FB 500 certification aims to generate inclusion and enable opportunities in credit cooperatives. To this end, we offered a scholarship to student Juliana Cristina Consentino, from the city of Cambira/PR, with 110 hours of online training and 36 hours in person. This initiative reflects in practice our principle of ‘building a more prosperous society together’. When offering training consistent for young people from different cities in our three states of operation, we are contributing to the fourth UN Sustainable Development Goal, which deals with Quality Education. As a member of the Global Compact, Sicredi is committed to the 2030 Agenda and the principles and ideals of our founders. We want to leave this legacy for the community and future generations. Manfred Dasenbrock, President of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ Juliana Cristina Consentino, from the municipality of Cambira/PR, completed Training in the Financial Market47 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPExpansion48 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP We have arrived, Carapicuíba! Expansion of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP benefits members and the development of the local economy The São Paulo municipality of Carapicuíba gained the first branch of our cooperative on July 7, 2022. The inauguration of the service point, located at Rua Antônio Zamela, 43, It was attended by the President of the cooperative, directors, employees and guests, and is part of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP's expansion project in its area of ​​operation in the State of São Paulo. According to President Agnaldo Esteves, the service network contributes to the generation of jobs and income. “Generating jobs means contributing to the circulation of capital and thus playing an active role in improving the quality of life of the population and local development, which is one of the great pillars that move the cooperative forward”, explains Esteves. “For this to happen, it is necessary to have a team of professionals who support the principles of cooperativism. In this way, we are able to offer the best services to members”, adds the President. With the opening of the space, we offer new alternatives to the community, with cooperative financial solutions. The positive impact of cooperativism on regional economic development was demonstrated in research “Economic Benefits of Credit Cooperatives in the Brazilian Economy”, from the Economic Research Institute Foundation (Fipe). According to the study, the sector increases the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita of the municipalities where it operates by 5.6%, increases the number of commercial establishments by 15.7% and creates 6.2% more formal job vacancies . The President of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP, Agnaldo Esteves and the former Manager of the Carapicuíba/SP unit and current Manager of Cotia/SP, Tiago Novuo Pereira Koseki See details about the opening of the Carapicuíba/SP branch by accessing this QR Code 49 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPThe first branch in Araçoiaba da Serra opens! With a business model committed to the growth of its members and the development of the regions where it operates, on November 21, 2022 it was Araçoiaba da Serra/SP's turn to gain its first Sicredi agency, located in the city center. The new agency in Araçoiaba da Serra is operating at Rua Professor Toledo, 159, in the city center and will operate from Monday to Friday, from 10am to 4pm, and with daily self-service from 7am to 8pm. Discover the Araçoiaba da Serra/SP branch by scanning this QR Code. Our growth in São Paulo and the positive numbers of the cooperative reflect the financial solidity of Sicredi, which operates in connection with the demands of members and society, offering the best financial solutions for each profile, with close and human relationship. We want the residents of Araçoiaba da Serra and the region to know these differences that make credit cooperatives an alternative to the traditional financial system. Anderson Alves de Queiroz, Regional Development Manager at Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 50 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPNow there's Sicredi in Cotia! With the inauguration, Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP closes the year 2022 with 35 branches in the states of Paraná and São Paulo One day after the inauguration of the Araçoiaba da Serra (SP) branch, the date of November 22nd remained in the history of the cooperative, with the inauguration of the branch in Cotia/SP, a municipality with great economic impact in the São Paulo region. The service point, located at Avenida Nossa Senhora de Fátima, 558, Vila Monte Serrat, is the result of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP's expansion plan, which has shown significant results in recent years. With more than 2,400 branches, Sicredi is physically present in all Brazilian states and the Federal District, offering a portfolio with more than 300 financial products and services. Valuing people is part of our 'DNA' and offering modern, well-located spaces with an excellent team only reflects our commitment to this. Cotia gained a new business opportunity, which values ​​quality and is committed to people. Marcelo Filinberti De Bortoli - Executive Director of Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Follow details about the opening of the Cotia/SP branch by accessing this QR Code 51 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Itambé with a new house! Present in the city for 20 years, the new structure highlights the modernization of the service network. August was the month for Itambé/PR to gain a “new home”. The service point, which turned twenty years old on July 1, 2022, is now located at Avenida São João, 131, Centro, and has an even more modern space. A The reopening took place on the 26th, in a ceremony attended by representatives of the cooperative and members who were part of the agency's history in the city. “With a new space, the expectation is to further increase demand, generate more jobs and contribute to the circulation of capital, playing an active role in improving the quality of life and local development, which is one of the great pillars that drive the cooperative.” - Agnaldo Esteves, President of Sicredi Agro-empresarial PR/SP Check out how our agency in Itambé/PR turned out by accessing this QR Code The cooperative has always had a special affection for the city of Itambé, where we have been present for 20 years. With great satisfaction, we delivered a new, spacious and modern agency that will provide comfort and welcome for all our associates, reinforcing our commitment to being close to and actively participating in the community. Cristiano Martineli, Operations Director at Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP 52 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPNew branches in 2023 Continuing with our expansion project in the cooperative's area of ​​operation in São Paulo, we will open three more branches in the state throughout 2023. JANDIRA/SP Forecast: March 2023 Jandira is a municipality in the Osasco microregion, located in the metropolitan region of São Paulo. With an area of ​​approximately 17,523 km², the municipality has a population of 126,356 people (2020 Census). VOTORANTIM/SP Forecast: April 2023Founded in 1963, the city of Votorantim/SP has more than 118,000 inhabitants and has the industrial sector as its most significant source of income. Source: City Hall of the municipalities and IBGENOVAS STRUCTURES In addition to the openings in the state of São Paulo, two agencies in Paraná will gain new structures. With large and modern facilities, the agencies are being prepared to receive our members with high quality. SÃO PEDRO DO IVAÍ/PR Forecast: December 2023AQUIDABAN/PRForecast: May 2023SALTO DE PIRAPORA/SP Forecast: April 2023 The city of Salto de Pirapora/SP extends over 280.5 km² and has a population of 45,422 inhabitants (2020 Census), with a strong presence in industry, agriculture and services .53 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPPROMOTION SAVINGS AWARDED SICREDI Happiness is saving at Sicredi! Developed with the aim of awakening and encouraging the habit of saving in Brazilians, the Poupança Premiada campaign Sicredi reached its seventh edition in 2022, reinforcing the importance of financial planning and partnership to realize personal or family dreams. Held by the cooperative financial institution in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, the promotion had 200 weekly draws of R$5,000, a special prize of R$500,000, in October, celebrating World Savings Day – in addition to the grand final draw of R$1 million, in December. To participate, for every R$ 100 invested in Sicredi savings, a lucky number was automatically generated for the member to compete in the draws, which were carried out by the Federal Lottery. In our cooperative, 10 members were awarded and R$ 50 thousand were distributed. Rogério Vitorino (Apucarana-PR) R$ 5,000.00 Mauro Marcílio (Itambé-PR) R$ 5,000.00 João Lúcio Fernandes (Rolândia-PR) R$ 5,000.00 Deivison Lopes (São Pedro do Ivaí-PR) R$ 5,000.00 Fábio Neves (Mandaguari-PR) R$ 5,000 ,00Francisco Campana (Aquidaban-PR) R$ 5,000.00José Carlos Mourales Moura (Arapongas-PR) R$5,000.00Vinicius da Silva de Oliveira (Arapongas-PR) R$5,000.00Francieli Alves dos S. de L. Rosa (California-PR) R$5,000.00Leonardo Henrique da S. Toledo (Kaloré-PR) R$ 5,000.00 COOPERATIVE WINNERS IN 2022: 54 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPA “Printed Capital” promotion, carried out by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, encouraged the payment of share capital to associates. Every R$ 100.00 was generated automatically a lucky number, competing for R$10,000.00 every month. Sicredi Prized Capital Promotion Sicredi and you are a successful partnership! You invest in your future and that of your community and even compete for cash prizes. In April 2022, our associate Renato Carlos Xavier, from the Sorocaba/SP Centro agency, took the prize. In December, it was the turn of the lucky Francisco de Assis Lima Silva, from the Kaloré/PR agency, to also be considered and receive the award. I am associated with cooperative for over a decade and being included in the Savings Prize was great! This money came at a good time and helped me a lot. In my career in various financial institutions I had never been included in a draw with a significant value like this. Fábio Neves, associate and winner from Mandaguari/PR Associate Francisco de Assis Lima Silva, from the Kaloré/PR agency, was drawn in December and also won R$10,000.00In April 2022, associate Renato Carlos Xavier, from the Sorocaba/SP Centro agency, was selected in the draw 55 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPFinancial statements56 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPBalance Sheet on 12/31/2022 (In thousands of Reais) Statement of Surplus or Losses on 12/31/2022 (In thousands of Reais)Agribusiness Free Admission Credit and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPCNPJ/MF nº 79.457.883/0001-13 DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS01/01/2022 a 12/31/202201/01/2021 to 12/31/2021 INCOME AND REVENUES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION 386,095 212,341 EXPENSES AND EXPENSES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION (238,129) (82,520) GROSS RESULTS FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION 14 7,966 129,821 OTHER INCOME AND REVENUE/EXPENSES AND EXPENSES OPERATIONAL (75,493) (57,011) RESULT OF THE YEAR BEFORE ALLOCATIONS 72,473 72,810 Interest on own capital (5,509) (1,638) Expansion Fund - Recovered from Losses (5,128) (5,732) RESULT CONSOLIDATED 61,836 65,440 Legal Reserve 50% (30,918) (32,720) Expansion Fund - 15% (9,275) (9,816) Equalization Fund - 10% (6,184) (6,544) FATES - 5% (3,092) (3,272) LEFTOVERS OR LOSSES AT THE DISPOSAL OF THE AGM 12,367 13,088 Assets DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS 12/31/2022 12/31/2021 AVAILABLE 8,234 7,344 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2,812,017 2,208,045 Interbank liquidity applications 69,281 71,437 Securities and securities + Financial Centralization 1,091,712 721,012 Active interbank relations 54 119 Credit operations 1,530,141 1,319,365 Other financial assets 120,829 96,112 PROVISIONS FOR CREDIT RISK (66,189) (38,535) OTHER ASSETS 18,364 10,534 INVESTMENTS - 21,043 FIXED ASSETS USE 32,331 27,951 INTANGIBLE 5,545 5,645 TOTAL ASSETS 2,810. 302 2,242,027 Liabilities DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS12/31/2022 12/31/2021 DEPOSITS 1,886,571 1,535,510 Demand deposits 290,732 257,804 Interbank deposits 194,698 100,744 Term deposits 1,401,141 1,176,962 OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 441,433 308,730 Interbank relations 373,124 305,715 Onlending obligations 254 649 Other financial liabilities 68,055 2,366 PROVISIONS FOR RISKS CIVIL, TAX AND LABOR 1,319 1,722 OTHER LIABILITIES 190,829 155,715 TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,520,152 2,001 .677 SHARE CAPITAL 79,877 66,457 SURPLUS RESERVES 197,906 160,805 SURPLUS OR ACCUMULATED LOSSES 12,367 13,088 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 290,150 240,350 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 2,810,302 2,242,027 57Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Economic Results Added Income to Society Making society more prosperous is part of our purpose and we do this, in practice, by applying resources in community itself. With a lot of dedication, hard work and cooperation, we have seen our cooperative grow and expand with each passing year, promoting the local economy and development of the municipalities in which we operate. There are countless benefits offered as a result of the number of jobs created in the cooperative and investment in different areas of society. 7. 889 .043 PIS – Program Social Integration 293,781 237,993 Taxes Paid 227,830 277,382 ISSQN - Tax on Services of Any Nature 227,830 277,382 Rent Paid 7,332,091 5,555,721 Total 82,913,369 67,862,286 Prior opinion of the Fiscal Council on the financial statements for the fiscal year ending in 31 December 2022 As members of the Supervisory Board of the Free Admission Agro-Empresarial Credit and Investment Cooperative – Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP and in the exercise of legal and statutory duties, we examine the Management Report and the Financial Statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses, Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity and other statements, documents relating to the year social security ended on December 31, 2022. Based on our examinations, monthly assessments, internal audit reports, all from the 2022 financial year, we are of the opinion that the mentioned demonstrations deserve the approval of the members. Mandaguari-PR, January 24, 2023. Ivã Dionísio Mendes Coordinator of the Fiscal Council Laercio Scarpaneze AdvisorOswaldo Sinkoc Advisor58 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SPStrategic Planning Planned Goal 2022 Accomplished 2022 Status Members 97,696 100,040 102% Administrated Resources: 2,367,528 2,665. 085 113% Deposits (demand/term) 1,546,858 1,690,678 109% Shareholders' equity 273,812 290,150 106% Savings 375,174 362,838 97% Pensions+Funds+ Collections+ LCA+ Others 171,684 321,418 187% Credit Operations: 1,632,725 1,756,829 108% Commercial Credit + Coobligations + CPR 1,249,344 1 ,339,965 107% Rural Financing / Targeted Resources 383,381 416,864 109% Product Sales: Consortiums - (Portfolio) - R$ thousand 298,095 325,503 109% Insurance issued - R$ thousand 35,604 37,832 106% Billing Slips - quantity in thousands 3,654 4,037 110% Cards - portfolio 113,226 124,656 110% Increment Target/Sales Planned Dec/2023Growth Members 10,000 110,040 10% Managed Resources: 439,594 3,104,678 16% Deposits (demand/term) 225,079 1.9 15,756 13% Shareholders' Equity 49,593 339,743 17% Savings 20,000 382,839 6% Pensions+Funds+ Collections+ LCA+ Others 144,922 466,340 45% Credit Operations: 279,969 2,036,798 16% Commercial Credit + Coobligations + CPR 219,959 1,559,924 16% Rural Financing and Targeted Resources 60,010 476,874 14% Product Portfolio: Consortiums - (Portfolio) - R$ thousand 29,152 354,655 14% Insurance issued - R$ thousand 41,584 41,584 10% Billing Slips - quantity in thousands 4,133 4,133 2% Cards - Quantity 5.974 130.630 5% Planned Paraná Phone: (44) 3322-8450 BOARD OF DIRECTORS President: Agnaldo EstevesVice-President: José Nialdo Favoreto ADVISORS Edilson Treuk, Fernando Lopes, Jose Maria Estrada, João Paulo de Oliveira, Jose Angelo de Faria, Luiz Roberto Felipette, Matias Jose Knoor and Meire Cristina Zanin FISCAL COUNCIL Members: Ivã Dionisio Mendes, LaercioScarpaneze and Oswaldo SinkocSubstitutes: Osvaldo Eidam, Lara Estela Rinaldo and Arlindo Justen EXECUTIVE BOARD Executive Director: Marcelo Filinberti De BortoliBusiness Director: Renato Lazareti VenancioOperations Director: Cristiano MartinelliSP Regional Development Manager: Anderson Alves de Queiroz COORDINATION Relationship Manager: Thiago Augusto Vanoni Antunes Pereira Communication and Marketing Assistant: Giovanni Bruno de Oliveira PHOTOGRAPHS Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP eC7 Communication ACHIEVEMENT Group C7 ComunicaçãoMandaguari/PR(44) 9 9922-0027 HoursSOCIAL Investment Every day we transform the reality of many people to build a more prosperous society. Interest in the Community is part of our principles and, therefore, we developed hundreds of actions throughout 2022 to bring Education, Training and Information to our employees, associates and society in general. In total, more than R$3 million was invested in projects, training and programs of collective interest focused on culture, sport, education, environment, safety, social inclusion and others. The Union does the Life 568,428 Support for community events98,310 Gifts for members 650,000 Youth Committee 51,051 Women's Committee 163,745 School Cooperatives 38,399 Growth and Welcome 100,416 Social Expense 34,534 Financial Education 168,402 Social Fund 388,665 Others 515,49 0 Sustainability 34,534 Trainings 625,300 Total 3,437,28160 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP Sicredi Agroempresarial PR/SP People cultivate people, who GROW