Classification of information: Unrestricted Use CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF RIO DE JANEIRO – SICREDI RIO RJ CNPJ N.º 72.128.440/0001 -30 CALL NOTICE – EXTRA ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The President of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Rio de Janeiro - Sicred i Rio RJ, using the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the nucleus delegates, which on this date total 15 (fifteen), to meet in EXTRA ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING, to be held on April 17, 2023 (Monday), at 5:30 pm (seventeen hours and thirty minutes), on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds ) of the delegates, in second call, at 6:30 pm (eighteen hours and thirty minutes), with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in third and final call, at 7:30 pm (nineteen hours and thirty minutes) minutes ), with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. A The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Rua Sorocaba, n° 500, Bo tafogo – CEP 22271-110, Rio de Janeiro / RJ, to all delegates, simultaneously, through video conferencing*, using the Belonging Tool accessed through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleias, to deliberate on the following AGENDA: 1. Broad and general reform and consolidation of the Cooperative's Bylaws, in its full version, aiming the adequacy of Sicredi's systemic draft, in accordance with the provisions brought by Complementary Law 196/2022. Rio de Janeiro, April 5, 202 3. Denise Dami an - President OBSERVATIONS: 1. *Instructions for participation and voting in the videoconference on the date and time indicated: Instructions and the link to access the General Assembly will be made available to Delegates, via email or Whatsapp, accessible via browser or smartphone application compatible with IOS systems and Android. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action via chat, and in real time. To access, simply click on the link and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 2. The emblem will be recorded electronically. 3. The draft Articles of Association are available at the cooperative's branches.