OPENING OF THE DEADLINE FOR PLACE REGISTRATION Notice of call for registration of a plate: candidates for the election of the Fiscal Council for the 2023-2025 Management of the Cooperative of Credit, Savings and Investment of Rio de Janelro - Slcredi R10 R}. The President of the Board of Directors, using the powers conferred on her by the Sicredi Electoral Code, publishes this notice that regulates the registration of a ticket to run for election to the Fiscal Council for Management 2023-2025. 1) From Composition and Inscription of Plates The registration of a plate will only be done by means of a fully composed plate, in compliance with the statutory provisions. Therefore, the Fiscal Council must be composed of 04 (four) members. a) the registration period for the ticket will be from February 17th to March 3rd, 2023, at the headquarters of the Cooperative, next to the legal office, located at Rua Sorocaba, n‘ 500 — 2‘-’. floor, Botafogo, Rio de Janeiro, at the time between 9 (nine) and 17 (seventeen) hours; b) Candidates for the Fiscal Council must present 5 full names of the candidates and CPF number for all positions provided for in the Cooperative's Bylaws, as well as the qualifications of each candidate. c) To register the ticket and its protocol, use a specific form (annex I), duly signed by one of the members of the ticket and accompanied by the necessary documents according to item 2. 2) Documents in accordance with the Electoral Code (art. 12) $50 The documents listed below are required for the plate registration: a) authenticated copy of the identification document and CPF; b) declaration of disqualification from holding the position, if elected to the administrative or supervisory body; c) negative or positive events with the effect of denying federal tax and contribution debts, including those of any company of which he is the controller or administrator; cl) civil, state and federal certificate, of the respective domiciles and where it operates for its delivery, including any company of which it is controlling or activity, issued with a date not exceeding 30 (thirty days from the date established 'administrator; w e) criminal, state and federal certificate of the respective domiciles, issued with a date not more than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for delivery; Scanned with Camscanner f) electoral criminal certificate, issued with a nip date greater than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; g) negative or positive certificate with negative effects on labor debts; h) negative certificate of title protest; i) declaration issued by the candidate that he is not on the register of bad check issuers (CCF); j) copy of the last income tax declaration, or the exemption declaration, in both cases with the updated asset stratification; k) professional CV; I) negative certificate issued by the Court of Auditors of the State of respective domicile, and the Union; rn) form provided by the Cooperative duly completed and signed by all members of the (5) list(s). n) Authorization (Annex II) so that the cooperative can provide data and movements of operations before the cooperative to the Electoral Commission, as well as authorize the Electoral Commission so that it can have access to documents, as well as information regarding the candidate in any banks of data, for the ﬁnal and exclusive use of the respective electoral process. o) Authorization (Annex III) if the candidate is a controller or administrator of a legal entity, so that the cooperative provides data on movements and operations for the Cooperative to the Electoral Commission, as well as the Electoral Commission can have access to documents, as well as information to its respect in any databases, for clinical and exclusive use in the respective electoral process. I. All information and personal data will be used for the exclusive purpose of verifying candidates’ compliance with statutory and legal requirements. ll. The entire electoral process will be conducted by the Electoral Commission designated by the Administrative Council. Rio de Janeiro, February 16, 2023. Dﬂji/Fm ‘a/t/1.4 Denise Damian President of the Board of Directors Scanned with Camscanner