Classification of information: Internal Use CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF RIO DE JANEIRO – SICREDI RIO RJ CNPJ N.º 72.128.440/0001 -30 CALL NOTICE – ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The President of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Rio de Janeiro - Sicredi Rio RJ, using the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the nucleus delegates, which on this date total 15 (fifteen), to meet in ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 17, 2023 (Monday), at 6pm (eighteen hours), on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, on second call, at 7pm (nineteen hours), with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 8pm (twenty hours), with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the Cooperative's headquarters, located at Rua Sorocaba, n° 500, Botafogo – CEP 22271 -110, Rio de Janeiro / RJ, for all delegates, simultaneously, through video conferencing*, using the Belonging Tool accessed via the website www.sicredi.com. br/assemblies, to deliberate on the following AGENDA: 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding year; w) income statement; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board; 2. Allocation of results; 3. Election of the members of the Fiscal Council. 4. Setting the value of the attendance card and benefits for members of the Supervisory Board. 5. Ratification of the Succession Policy. 6. Allocation and/or Ratification of the allocation of resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund. Rio de Janeiro, April 5, 202 3. Denise Damian - President OBSERVATIONS: 1. *Instructions for participating and voting in the videoconference on the indicated date and time: Instructions and the link to access the General Assembly will be made available to delegates, via e-mail or WhatsApp, accessible through a browser or compatible smartphone application with IOS and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action via chat, in real time. For Access simply click on the link and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 2. The emblem will be recorded electronically.