Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 BYLAWS OF ARTICLE BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF RIO DE JANEIRO – SICREDI RIO RJ CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I - Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1st Art. 1st The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Rio de Janeiro January – Sicredi Rio RJ, established at the general meeting of December 14, 1992, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction at Rua Sorocaba, n° 500, Botafogo, CEP 22.271 -110, in the City of Rio de Janeiro, State of Rio de Janeiro; II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, limited to the municipality of Rio de Janeiro, located in the State of Rio de Janeiro; III - indefinite duration. Section II - Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company and, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the States of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro - Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, hereinafter referred to as “Central ”, integrates, with this and other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1 Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confed eração Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities of which these participate directly or indirectly in the Development Foundation Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 Educational and Cultural of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo s Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by legislation in . § 3 The disaffiliation of the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I- the majority of its members, to become independent; II - da majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of members, to join another credit central cooperative. § 4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5º The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - systemic rules on use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk. The solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through the Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated with others central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 10. The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 11. The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. Approved at the Extraordinary General Assembly of 04/17/2023 § 13. Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, bodies and government authorities. § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide benefits to its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, under the terms d current regulations, access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational programs, research, teaching and institutional development, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and standards systemic entities, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail themselves of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the aim of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, in compliance with internal regulations and current legislation. CHAPTER III MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I - Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5. Members of the C ooperative may be people who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I - individuals who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; II - legal entities established in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to service, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). Approved at the Extraordinary General Assembly of 17.04.2023 § 2 To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in § 2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor may they remain in it, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2 of art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - the one who leaves to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent information, or untrue, including through a public or private document, or omitting registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items I V and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II - Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elective positions in the Cooperative, subject to the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to statutory and internal regulations, as well as such as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Society or a regulatory-statutory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved at a general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 Section III - Duties Art. 7th Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practicing, within and outside the Cooperative, activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and in the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is of common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of the member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities that are part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV - Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations proportionally to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the assembly general, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. Approved at the Extraordinary General Assembly of 04/17/2023 § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in cases hypotheses in §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the shares - subscribed parts, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or culpable, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative. Section V - Forms of Termination Subsection I - Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II - Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Infringement of current legislation or the Statute, when not applicable to its exclusion; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - carrying out acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 04/17/2023, they act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days he or she can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in his/her opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and will communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating it from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 dest and Statute, in effect suspensive to the first general meeting to be held. § 5 When any advisor or director falls foul of the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him/her, as appropriate, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days s present your reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period of time or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as per the case. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 Subsection III - Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs due to: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV CAPITAL SOCIAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares - shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 100,000.00 (one hundred thousand reais) , and must be paid in current currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay at least 10 (ten) quotas -parts. § 3 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. . § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, it may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 17.04.2023, pay in new shares - capital shares, including defining the form, value and the frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5º In capital contributions, except as described in § 2º of this article, it will be admitted subscription and monthly payment, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7th quotas - parts of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting on the same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, respecting the systemic indication. Approved in Extraordinary General Meeting of 17.04.2023 § 12. The Social Capital may be refunded to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents leftovers; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13 The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 15 (fifteen) years may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors request to withdraw up to 50% (fifty percent) of your capital; members over 70 (seventy) years of age and with 15 (fifteen) years of admission, cumulatively, and those retired due to disability may withdraw part of their share capital, maintaining the minimum shareholding established in § 2 of this article. In all cases provided for in this paragraph, the member must maintain a capital account balance at least equal to their indebtedness. § 14. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw up to 10% (ten percent) of their share capital. Past this period and every 1 (one) year, the member may redeem up to 10% (ten percent) of the value of the share capital, maintaining their member status, with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. The member must maintain a capital account balance at least equal to their debt. § 15. In cases involving serious illnesses, judicial and/or extrajudicial agreements signed with the Cooperative, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their membership status, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 16. If the Cooperative has, on December 31st of the previous year, reserves that correspond to at least 100% (one hundred percent) of the capital requirements established by the Central Bank of Brazil on this same base date, excluding the values ​​of contributions from the Guarantee Funds, of any modality, the Board of Directors may, exceptionally, authorize partial redemption in fortuitous cases or force majeure, as well how to make the partial withdrawal criteria established in §§ 12, 13 and 14 above more flexible, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 17. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit resulting from the value of their share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 1 8. In the event of the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the The cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which the member was removed from membership. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance arising from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 19. The return of items referred to in §§ 12, 13, 14 and 15, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be at the discretion of the collegiate body, taking into account, for this purpose, the conditions financial and patrimonial assets of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its compliance with all the asset limits required by current legislation, with payment being allowed in installments by the Cooperative. § 20. The shares - shares of the capital are part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations with third parties, as long as the corporate link with the company continues. Cooperative. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 21. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be offset, at the discretion of the Cooperative, with their respective quotas, surpluses or remuneration annual contribution on capital shares, maintaining your membership status with the minimum number of shares established in the § 2 of this article. § 22. Balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Section I - General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Bylaws, will make any and all decisions in the interest of the Company, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. § 1 The provision of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of members of the administrative and supervisory councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general assembly, must be previously assessed in core assemblies. § 2 Other matters on the agenda of the general assembly may be resolved directly in Delegates' Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform the members later. § 4 The coordination of the core assemblies will be the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or the Vice-President, or, if this is impossible, whoever he/she indicates. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 5 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General assemblies will normally be called by the President of the Administration Council, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in an access repository unrestricted audience on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights , in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Call for General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receipt of votes, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General meetings may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as it is expressly stated in the notice. Approved at the Extraordinary General Assembly of 04/17/2023 § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, without, however, having their voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the legate may not simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must resign concurrently with the post of delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies for delegates among the nuclei will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 50 (fifty), observing the specific regulations; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place in a Core Assembly, in good time before the Assembly General of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elective positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in the regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Board of Directors of the Cooperative will define the conditions and procedures for its implementation. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general meeting of legates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and alternates – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general meetings will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Deputy will preside over the meeting -President, who will invite an administration advisor to act as secretary of the work. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and acted as a secretariat by a delegate or other member chosen at the time, with the main interested parties in the meeting forming the Board. . Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his deputy or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, held by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except with regard to matters of exclusive competence of the general assembly ex traordinary, for which the votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates present are required. Single paragraph. Deliberations and other substantial events at the assemblies will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing continuity on a date later, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the continuation of the session, respecting the legal quorum, both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, everything duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II - Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The ordinary general assembly will be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies administration, accompanied by the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit report, comprising: Approved in Extraordinary General Meeting of 17.04.2023 a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixation, on the occasion of election and whenever changes are foreseen, in the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses of the members of the Councils; V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. Setting the values ​​set out in the Item IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperat iva. Section III - Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The process election will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission specifically constituted for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same collegiate. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I - Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a governing body collegiate deliberation, made up of individual members, composed of a President, a Vice-president and 10 (ten) advisors, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other requirements complementary provisions set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the management councils administration, fiscal or the Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - when taking office in the position for which he/she was elected, not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold shares in a company that, due to its activities, is considered a competitor of any of the entities that are part of Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 IV - not having held or currently holding a political position or function - party, in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the activities inherent; VI - not having taken advantage of 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at Active Cooper or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have registration negative in any database; VIII - not have, through intent or negligence, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX - have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) nucleus assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated in the exercise immediately previous, or participate in courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of their mandate, up to the deadline of 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for the full compliance with statutory and le GAIS incumbency, being prohibited the accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative; XII - be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XIII – meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 negatively, or undermine, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by the entities that are part of Sicredi ; XV - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVI - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he is the majority shareholder or administrator, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency greater than 3 ( three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months; § 1 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and consequences will be considered. circumstances of each case. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, subject to that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher integer must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5º In licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by a counselor Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position(s), confirming or not the (s) appointed, and the one (s) elected will serve the remaining period of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. By reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, New components must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 4 (four alternating meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; V - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. VI - licenses, except for health treatment, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; a) Upon leave for health treatment, for the President, Vice-President and members of the Executive Board, the continuity of payment of fees in a complementary manner to social security and the maintenance of benefits in force during the period Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting is ensured in 04/17/2023 of leave of up to 24 months, which may be extended at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political - party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood to be: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councilman, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice- President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, on an ordinary monthly basis, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President, of the majority of the Board itself, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform promptly to the Supervisory Board of the Board of Directors. Cooperative. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 1 The calling of meetings of the Board of Directors will preferably be in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest, or that relate to your relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and these Bylaws, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and fulfillment of the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and competencies and the individual remuneration of Directors, in compliance with the provisions contained in the bylaws; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of annual remuneration on shares - capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the scope of Society, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of applicable penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the Cooperative community and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV - authorize the alteration of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, closure, transfer or change of address of the other dependencies or branches of the cooperative, within or outside the headquarters, in the terms current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and internal regulations from Sicredi; XVI - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing social capital among members; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing the social capital by membership; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 case. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors appoints other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, will define for each one, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable rules , coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of programs for organizing Sicredi's membership, development and management, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative activist leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the work plan, annual or multi-year, as well as budget proposals, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership framework, in accordance with the competence special of the Board of Directors; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 17.04.2023 VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic and corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever indicates; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, convening and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general assembly or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his/her leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in which the Cooperative participates. Section II - Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out related acts and operations for the purposes of the interest of the company, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, being an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Director of Business. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the Directors' term of office or vacancy, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the position not held will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 3º The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and the appointees will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term. or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed economy companies ; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of license of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that implies the absence of a plurality of Directors and an unfilled vacancy. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and XIII to XVI, as well as § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have compatible knowledge with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 V – meet the complementary systemic requirements when provided for in the regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations, is responsible for: I - managing operationally the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing them in a power of attorney skills, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, in compliance with the provisions of these Statutes; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets classified as current assets of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such businesses; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the guideline systemic and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for their execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring its execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of goods movable, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities related to the ordinary administration of the Cooperative; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. To Members of the Executive Board have the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of cooperative development and sustainability of Sicredi in the Cooperative’s area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 17.04.2023 d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) respond for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Director of Operations: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as forwarding measures in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) respond to management the performance and monitoring of the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 c) ​​respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) respond to the execution of the Cooperative's expansion plans in line with the deliberations of the Executive Board and Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, sureties and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are pertinent to its corporate purpose and as provided for in this Bylaws. § 2º The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, however, it may meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be included of minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective replacement, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 1º The Directors who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, through reckless management or serious omission of duties, determine loss to the Company, will respond directly, with its own assets for compensation for damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including at the judicial level, to promote the accountability of Board Members and Officers whose actions or omissions, as per the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) substitute, all associated individuals, elected by the general assembly, observing, regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVI of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires complete, independent and unrelated slate(s) from the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 3 The term of office will be 02 (two) years. § 4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 1 In its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 Council meetings Tax may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to fill them appropriately, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The hypotheses of vacancy provided for in art. 27, § 7, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political - party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Among other duties arising from the legislation, these Bylaws and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and the actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor it about its concession; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, the dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on social and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of its functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate the compliance, by the management of the Cooperative, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all the individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, warning about the irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, reporting the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the administration bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to resulting losses, for the acts and facts irregularities in the management of the Cooperative, whose practice results from proven omission, carelessness, lack of accuracy, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of counselors and directors for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 45% (forty-five percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; II - 05% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in its area of action ; III - recomposition of resources from the guarantee funds, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the equity structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares - shares of the associates' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining mandatory allocations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other values ​​recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among members. CHAPTER to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; Approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting of 04/17/2023 IV - for the cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with legal and regulatory rules own. CHAPTER CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or Electronic documents, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data, will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, through authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the filing of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when appropriate, the social bodies.