Credit Cooperative Sicredi Alto Sertão Paraiban O - Sicredi Alto Sertão Paraibano Rua Presidente João Pessoa, 25 - Centro de Sousa/PB CNPJ: 09.343.038/0001-31 NIRE: 25400007640 General Assembly of Digital Center Call Notice- (In/Drei 81/2020 and Art. 43-A of Law No. 5,764/71) The President of the Board of Directors of Cooperativa de Crédito Sicredi Alto Sertão Paraibano, with headquarters at Rua Presidente João Pessoa, 25 in the Center of Sousa/PB, registered in the CNPJ no. 09.343.038/0001-31, in the use of the powers conferred on it by the Cooperative's Social Statute, article 14 and art. 6th, §2nd, of the Regulations of the Pertencer Program, calls on its members, who on this date number 4,710 (four thousand seven hundred and ten), able to vote, to meet in a Core Assembly, in DIGITAL mode, on October 10, 2023, at 2 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 3 p.m., with the presence half plus one of the associates, on second call; at 4 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on a third call, to deliberate on the following agenda: 1. Election of Center Coordinators and their Substitutes, in accordance with the Belonging Program Regulations . Deadline for registration of those interested in the position of Core Coordinator: Members interested in occupying the position of Core Coordinator (Delegate), effective or alternate, may apply register at the Cooperative branches by 10/02/2023, filling out the appropriate form. The duties and requirements of the Nucleus Coordinator are detailed in the Pertencer Program Regulations, available at Cooperative branches. Members interested in participating in the assembly must register in advance at the following email address www.sicredi.com.br/altosertaoparaibano, until 8:00 am on October 10, 2023, observing the guidelines made available in the month my email address. Members who have registered in advance and who access the virtual meeting room at the time of the meeting will be able to express themselves via chat, or verbally, thus ensuring their full participation in the meeting. Voting will be carried out through a digital system made available during the Assembly, and exceptionally, in case of unavailability of the voting tool or impossibility of use by the member, voting via chat, or verbal. The Meeting will be recorded electronically and may be requested by regulatory authorities or members, upon formal request. Observations: 1. Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: During the period in which the Core Assembly is open, members will be able to access the Belonging Tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleias by registering and identifying themselves use your CPF or CNPJ and password, for any device with internet, or using equipment available at the Cooperative's branches, an opportunity in which they will be admitted to the Core Assembly and exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, digitally. 2. Once the voting period is over, the results will be counted and announced at the assembly itself. 3. Decisions of groups with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members will be considered valid. 4. Due to the format digital version of the Core Assembly, any proposals related to the issues on the agenda must be communicated to the Cooperative by October 5, 2023 directly at the Cooperative's branches. Sousa/PB September 29, 2023 GILBERTO GOMES SARMENTO Chairman of the Board of Directors