2021 Annual Report SicrediValorSustentávelPR/SP 2021 Annual Report Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SPO Sicredi Annual Report Valor Sustentável PR/SP highlights the main actions developed by the cooperative, guided by Sicredi's mission and connected to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) established by United Nations (UN). To facilitate and democratize access, this Report is also available in a digital version, published on the website https://www.sicredi.com.br/coop/valor-sustentavel-prsp/ Happy reading!Welcome!Welcome! 2. MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ................................................ ....... 04 3. FIND OUT ABOUT THE SDGS .................................... ...................................... 08 4. WE ARE SICREDI ...... .................................................... .................. 09 5. OUR COOPERATIVE ........................... ................................ 12-13 »Area of ​​activity / Where we are .................................................... 15 »Our cooperative in numbers ............................................... ........... 17 »Timeline ................................................ ............................................. 18 6 RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM .................... 20-21 »Assemblies .................... .................................................... ................. 22 »Spreading Cooperativism and Sustainability .................................... 25 »Promoting Financial Education ............................................. ..... 30 »Promoting Eco-efficient Management ...................................... ............... 33 7. LOCAL DEVELOPMENT .............................. .................. 34-35 »Fostering the Local Economy .......................... ..................................... 36 »Contribute to the development of communities..... ........ 38 »Day C - Cooperate Day .................................................... .................. 42 »Local Economy ............................ .................................................... ...... 45 8. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT .............. 46-47 9. EXPANSION ............. .................................................... ..................... 51 10. OUR STATEMENTS ......................... ................... 56-57 » Balance Sheet .................................................... .......................... 58 » Statement of Surplus ..................... ............................................... 59 »Opinion of the Supervisory Board .................................................... ............. 59 »Audit report ................................ ....................................... 604 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR |SP Message from the Human Convention of Time, the Gregorian calendar ends calendar year activities on December 31st. Among others, it was accepted to facilitate complex interactions between countries. 12/31/2021 ended another time cycle, of 365 days, where all human activities were recorded, from all countries. The assessment of each country's GDP, for example, can only be compared if the same parameters are used – including the same period of time. Actions and events mark the years with certain characteristics and circumstances called cycles. Due to the homogeneity that characterizes them, they can be annual, decennial, secular or millennial, etc. By analyzing them, we can evaluate, rectify or ratify routes: in cooperativism, the collective cannot lose its way! And let's face it: we still have great difficulties in looking at longer periods of time! The more distant tomorrow seems to have nothing to do with us! If it becomes a problem, however, it will only be for those who come after us: not for us! Unfortunately, many think and live like this: they are the carefree about life! It’s only worth the here and now! We do not know theories or sociological reasons that explain such behavior. Maybe, but that's speculating; our bio-organic finitude is so brief that, therefore, it can suggest some explanation - from cradle to grave, our cycles – on average – are so short that we become immediatists: what matters is the present! In the long term we won't be here, so... this is the x-ray of the deep “I”, perhaps of the majority. Finally, we could say that Can bio-organic brevity be a cause of our selfishness? Even if it is true, such behavior has nothing to do with cooperativism, which goes in the opposite direction with its principles and values. It is an ethical school where selfishness does not flourish and the cooperative “we” does not exclude anyone! Open to everyone, it takes place in cycles where trust is sovereign! Credit cooperativism has, in the Sicredi model, its apex! It aims at the prosperity of global society, but it also aims at sustainability of those who will inhabit the planet tomorrow. If we have the right to human well-being and dignity, so do those to come! However, we already live on a planet with an uncertain future, finite resources and accelerated degradation! If we continue at this pace, what legacy will we leave?President5 Message from President Plácido Caldas Filho President of Sicredi Valor Sustentáve PR/SP There are, however, some lights shining in the “Land of Men”, and cooperativism is one of them! It's hope, because it's a movement that unites men within principles and values! And what's more: it's increasingly contaminating everyone, as is the case with our Sustainable Value, where everyone cares about everyone else. Cooperatives discovered long ago that happiness only exists when it is shared! On 12/27/2021, looking at the calendar, I saw a “certificate” addressed to me: that day I completed a cycle of 43 years of experience at the cooperative school, where I continue to learn! From registration number 649, from Colari until today, I underwent transformations! My view of the world and others has changed: we are all residents of a building called planet Earth where interdependence reigns! The next day, 12/28/2021, the soul was impacted again: it was the significant cycle of Sicredi and its 119 years! On a happy day, Father Theodor Amstad gave Brazil a gift: he materialized, on Gaucho soil, the first credit cooperative in Latin America, inspired by Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen's rural mutual model, sown in rural German soil, in 1862, in the city of Anhausen. They are the cycles of men and their circumstances: they are the corollaries of time! We talk about evolutionary cycles, as a direct message to employees, managers, outsourced workers and each associate: simply remind them that time is lost, lost! Don't come back! Never! Did you leave lessons? If you did, let's make the most of them, because lost time is gone! Forever! The lessons of the time that was lost remain. Instrument designed to transform the human beings and society, we need to be more efficient, making better use of the time at our disposal, which are actually opportunities! Let’s do our part by remembering the old adage: “don’t put off until tomorrow what you can do today”! Those who took advantage of opportunities to materialize mature ideas, bequeathed solid and striking structures, such as the historically identified cycles of thinkers, giants of the collective, such as Raiffeisen, in Germany, Amstad and Kruel Guimarães in Brasil!6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP It is in this context of not wasting time, developing human beings to their potential and planning, with as many variables as possible, so that we can achieve results like 2021. Sicredi Valor Sustentável continues to evolve at an accelerated pace, achieving the highest result in its history for the second time in a row. It is with this spirit of extreme joy that we present the 2021 report, with the main actions and events. The uncertainties of the pandemic, an untimely political crisis, postponing deep and necessary reforms in the State and the damaging consequences on the economy, became the major obstacles to overcome in 2021. Commodities on the rise, paradoxically, the dollar also rose. GDP falling and inflation rising; Adding to the highest unemployment rate in Brazil, a nightmarish situation emerged that the country did not expect: it was called the perfect storm, that is, when the worst that can happen happen, happen! And at the same time! Without economic growth, any program becomes extremely difficult. However, with all these obstacles, once again we overcame ourselves! This is cooperativism in action. This is what, together, we will do; It is the strength of union and solidarity. However, transparency requires us to make some clarifications: if we continue at the same rate of growth, some adjustments will need to be made, such as strengthening assets. There must always be a balance between the supply of credit and the guarantee guarantee, which are the reserves, plus the share capital. We are convinced that the member will say: present! Furthermore, we repeat, such a consistent result, from the cooperative, but also from the Sicredi system, projects this model with the real hope of democratizing credit in Brazil. In quick strokes, we still highlight actions and events from 2021: Our assemblies, still in digital format, received 2,130 members, who had the election of the Fiscal Council. In the Women's Committee, 35 women participated in the program “Intedoras para Mulherar o Mundo”; Encouraging female leadership is a commitment of the cooperative, as it is fundamentally the emancipation of women in all sectors of society, conscious citizenship and well-being independent of gender. In the Youth Committee, 79 young people participated in the new training. Seeking to inspire young people to accept the challenge of taking on leadership positions in the cooperative and in society, as they are the future. We trained 91 entrepreneurs out of 9 cities, future community leaders. In the Sicredi Foundation pilot project, we took “Cooperation at the tip of the pencil” to schools, involving 2014 students; 102 teachers and 10 schools. We carried out the same action in communities in 46 actions with 27 volunteers, impacting 4,605 ​​people. In the A União faz a Vida Program, the main social responsibility program, aims at the citizenship of tomorrow, through fundamental education, where human interdependence, collaboration, union and equality are assimilated. However, the cooperative gives 7 Annual Report 2021 special attention to the teacher: we carry out the emotional health project “Hive of Emotions”, with the monthly participation of everyone, coordinated by a psychologist! On Day C – day to cooperate, we carried out 11 actions, impacting 3,340 people, showing that, together, we accomplished more. Sustainability Committee, established in April, the committee is now fundamental for any company that wants to remain on the scene: in addition to governance sustainability, there is the environment on the scene: in addition to governance sustainability, there is the environment to be recovered and preserved. Sicredi is part of the UN Global Compact, which established 17 goals to be achieved by 2030, whose name is: Sustainable Development Goals – SDGs! Sicredi already had programs that represented the UN SDGs. Thus, we can say that we are aligned with the highest body of nations. These are themes that today torment all humanity, such as hunger, education, health, poverty, climate change, water, pollution, equality, freedom, justice, etc. These are all themes dear to cooperativism. Along these lines, we established the inclusion and diversity committee in November. We support eco-efficiency programs, aiming to neutralize CO2 in the atmosphere through different paths. In an associate satisfaction survey, we achieved a significant score of 75.48%. We reopened the Lidianópolis branch on 05/08; We also opened the Cruzmaltina branches on 15/03 and the one in Grandes Rios, on 12/20. We also paid special attention to our employees, the primary reason for our success! We promote a series of lectures: “Moments of Value”; “Training Program” with the business area; “Training Program for New Agency Managers”; we monitor the vaccination rate of employees, highlighting the importance of the vaccine; we also promoted the “Dale Carnegie Course”, with the participation of agency managers, headquarters advisors, regional managers and directors; O The program aims to develop leadership, public speaking, interpersonal relationships, etc. Finally, we proudly highlight the percentage achieved in the climate survey: 95%. This number represents everything for us, it sums up the employee’s pleasure in working at Sicredi Valor Sustentável! Consequence of the index: the result! Highlighting that we have a highly qualified Board of Directors, Supervisory Board and Board of Directors! They demonstrate capacity, participation and love for the cooperative. As teams, pass credibility and trust to employees and associates, allowing for smooth governance! Honoring the dreams of Raiffeisen and Amstad, let us remain determined, but together, fulfilling each other's part! By following this roadmap, a more just and prosperous world will inevitably emerge! Good reading! 8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP These are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the Global Compact, established by the UN, to help us achieve build a better society, with less inequality and more prosperous. The Global Compact is today the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world, with more than 16 thousand members, including companies and organizations, distributed across 69 networks Get to know the Do you know what the Sustainable Development Goals are? locations, covering 160 countries. Those who are part of the Global Compact also assume the responsibility of contributing to achieving the 17 SDGs. The work developed by Sicredi Valor Sustainable PR/SP is inspired by the desire to build a more prosperous society together and is connected to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).9 Annual Report 2021 We are Sicredi, and we chose to follow a collective path to offer intelligent solutions for the financial development of our associates. We understand that the best choices are those that bring results for everyone. We offer more than 300 financial products and services in a simple and next. But what makes us different is that, when you join, you acquire a small share of your cooperative, becoming the owner of Sicredi, having a voice over business decisions and participating in the results. Here everyone has the opportunity to decide and participate, this way we create bonds of trust that allow us to grow together. The performance of a cooperative, based on a sustainable cycle where money raised in the region is reinvested in the same region, brings development and prosperity to the people. According to research carried out by FIPE in 2019, the presence and activity of a credit cooperative increases the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita of municipalities by 5.6%, creates 6.2% more formal job vacancies and increases the number of commercial establishments by 15.7%, therefore stimulating local entrepreneurship. We want to bring people together and value the collective, respecting each person's individuality, in a community that cares about the good of everyone. Are more than 5.5 million members and we are present in all regions of Brazil and with more than 2.2 thousand branches, distributed in more than 100 cooperatives. We are Sicredi As a cooperative system, valuing relationships, offering financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. _ Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business;_ Respect for the individuality of the member;_ Valuing and developing people;_ Preservation of the institution as a system;_ Respect for official and internal standards;_ Efficiency and transparency in management. MISSION VISION VALUES10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sustainable Value PR|SP INSPIRACIONAL 2020 - 2030 Get to know the our purpose and our infographic “Inspirational 2020/2030”, which represents this movement. This inspiration is the starting point and an ever-present guide to mobilize, engage and drive our teams so that the associate is always at the center of our business.11 Annual Report 2021 + 5.5 million associates + 30 thousand employees who they know our members closely in 25 states and the Federal District + 100 affiliated credit unions SICREDI’S PRESENCE IN BRAZIL Legend Sicredi National Presence Sicredi National Presence expanding + 2,200 branches R$ 197.6 billion in assets reinvested in the community R$ 25.2 billion in net worth of everyone for everyone *data refer to December Sicredi National Presence Sicredi National presence expanding12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP 13 Annual Report 2021 Topic Our Cooperative Topic Topic Our Cooperative 14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustainable PR|SP We are Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP, founded on July 15, 1989 by 28 members of COOPERVAL – Cooperative of Sugarcane and Alcohol Producers who already cultivated the values ​​of mutual aid and solidarity. We operate in 14 municipalities in the state of Paraná and, in eight of them, we are the only financial institution in the municipality, while in the state of São Paulo, we have four branches in the city of Franca. We have more than 300 Our Cooperative employees who They work to serve more than 29 thousand members, who are our reason for existing. We are one of more than 100 cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. We are part of a national System, made up of more than 5.5 million members who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network that supports its prosperity with responsible financial solutions.15 Annual Report 2021 Area of ​​activity Where we are 20 municipalities 10 municipalities14 branches 03 branches08 municipalities in which we are the only financial institution present 25,124 members 4,740 membersPARANÁ SÃO PAULOTOTAL MEMBERS 29,864 01 _ Cristais Paulista 02 _ Franca03 _ Itirapuã04 _ Jeriquara05 _ Patrocínio Paulista06 _ Pedregulho07 _ Restinga08 _ Ribeirão Corre nte09 _ Rifaina10 _ São José da Bela Vista01 _ Arapuã02 _ Ariranha do Ivaí03 _ Barbosa Ferraz04 _ Bom Sucesso05 _ Borrazópolis06 _ Corumbataí do Sul07 _ Cruzmaltina08 _ Fênix09 _ Godoy Moreira10 _ Grandes Rios 0102 01 02 0304 050708 1009 060305 13141516 1718 1920060708 0910 1112 04 Cities that have their own Sicredi branches; Areas served; 11 _ Ivaiporã 12 _ Jandaia do Sul13 _ Jardim Alegre14 _ Lidianópolis15 _ Lunardelli16 _ Marumbi17 _ Novo Itacolomi18 _ Quinta do Sol19 _ Rio Branco do Ivaí20 _ Rosário do Ivaí Headquarters city of the Cooperative.16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP 16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP Na Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP two associates benefited from the “Pre-miada Savings” promotion promoted by Sicredi. In total, the promotion, whose campaign stars were the duo Cesar Menotti & Fabiano (who are also members of Sicredi), distributed more than R$ 2.5 million in prizes in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Meet the winners: Awards for our Associates Associates are drawn in the Sicredi Valdemar Antonio Prize Savings Promotion Bulgarão, from Jandaia do Sul - PR Suprema Supermercados, Jardim Alegre - PR17 Annual Report 2021 TOTAL RESOURCES ASSOCIATED CREDIT OPERATIONSSAVINGS DEPOSITS NET WORKS (Millions of R$*) CONSORTIUM310.21824.498 254.79556.895 9.1547.517.3 05 91.40820192019 20192019 20192019 2019490.24325.584 425.142103. 202020 212021 20212021 2021Our cooperative in numbers * Including interest paid on capital18 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP 1989 2006 1995 2000 2003 1992 2008 1996 2002 2004_ 15/07 Foundation of the Rural Credit Cooperative of Sugarcane Producers of Vale do Ivaí by 28 members. 13/10 _ Inauguration of the Jandaia do Sul Agency. 01/06 _ Inauguration of the Lidianópolis Agency. 13/11 _ Inauguration of its own headquarters in Jandaia do SulFoundation of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi S.A23/06 _ Inauguration of the Bom Sucesso Branch.12/09 _ Opening of the Ivaiporã Branch Start of the Cooperative's activities.01/04 _ Opening of the Borrazópolis BranchThe Credit Cooperative joined the Sicredi brand – Cooperative Credit System, a solid model of cooperativism in Latin America. The cooperative changed its name to Sicredi Vale do Ivaí in June. 13/07 _ Opening of the Corumbataí do Sul Branch07/06 _ Opening of the Novo Itacolomi Branch Sustainable Value Timeline19 Annual Report 2021 2009 2011 2015 2018 2020 2021 2010 2012 2017 2019Implementation of the Program The Union makes life in the Cooperative, in the municipality of Jandaia do Sul. The organization of members into groups begins, election of effective and substitute nucleus coordinators. 02/08 _ Opening of the Jardim Alegre Agency 09/10 _ Opening of the Barbosa Ferraz Branch of Ivaiporã 15/03 _ Inauguration of the Agency de Cruzmaltina 05/08 _ Reopening of the Lidianópolis Branch 20/12 _ Opening of Grandes Rios Authorized by the Central Bank for Free Admission, thus allowing the expansion of the membership, serving practically all segments of society.10/12 _ Opening of the Branch by LunarelliThe Cooperative was renamed Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP. 05/09 _ Inauguration of the Franca-SP Agency 24/10 _ Inauguration of the Franca-CDL Agency – Franca-SP 07/11 _ Launch of the Committee Women of Valor26/02 _ Consultative Council established 31/05 _ Launch of the Jovens de Valor Committee 20/09 _ Inauguration of the Godoy Moreira Agency-PR06TopicRelationship and cooperativismRelationship and cooperativism The Cooperative Development area is the guardian of the purpose of keeping it alive the essence of cooperativism and contributing to the local development of the municipalities where we are present through education, culture and sustainability. Our cooperative counts with initiatives and programs aimed at expanding our positive impact on associates and communities, thus helping to comply with two principles of cooperativism: 5th - Education, training and information 7th - Interest in the community. And in 2021 we accomplished a lot of good things, we continued to take care of the emotions of the teachers participating in the A União Faz a Vida Program, we encouraged our women members of the Women's Committee to leave their comfort zone to climb towards the top of self-knowledge. And what about the connection between young people and Cooperativism? With each generation, young people are more collaborative, collective and engaged in themes related to sustainability, diversity and plurality. And our young members of the Youth Committee have already started the process of being protagonists in their communities by carrying out local projects. In the Financial Education item, we made significant progress with the Financial Education Journey within schools municipalities, as in 2020 the new BNCC (National Common Curricular Base) brought the topic as mandatory in the school curriculum, Sicredi is being a protagonist in this initiative with a great difference, presenting and developing a complete program, probably the best in Brazil. Concluding and crowning the year 2021, with the successful launch of the Sicredi Empreenda Program, which aims to empower and train members and non-members who are micro-entrepreneurs so that can improve their day-to-day management of their businesses, expanding income generation opportunities. Through this program, we promote education and financial inclusion, strengthening entrepreneurship and local development. Thus, Valor Sustentável reinforces the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, establishing guidelines for commitments towards a better and sustainable future. Patrícia Goularte Marafon Sakamoto Cooperative Manager22 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP Participative Management of the Cooperative Associates Core Coordinators Board of Directors Cooperative Board of Directors Cooperative Supervisory Board(elect) (elect)(select) The assemblies are annual events that take place in the region where Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP operates and It is a differentiator of our cooperative model. This is an opportunity for you, as a member, to put your role as owner into practice, deciding the direction of the cooperative together. with other associates. Because this is how, in a democratic and transparent way, we reach decisions that make a difference to your community and your life. Due to the pandemic, the Cooperative chose to hold the 2021 meetings in digital format. In a safe, practical and well-explanatory way, the member had access to the President's presentation explaining the Cooperative's results for 2020, as well as the proposed distribution of results, after attending the presentation, the member had the opportunity to vote and decide the future of the cooperative. In this format we had the participation of more than 2,100 members, which represents 6.7% of the cooperative's membership. Assemblies23 Annual Report 2021 In the governance process, in addition to the associates and Core Coordinators, Sicredi Valor Sustentável has the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board. Meet our advisors. BOARD OF DIRECTORS FISCAL COUNCIL EXECUTIVE BOARD At the General Assembly, the Core Coordinators elect the members of the Board of Directors. The body is responsible for establishing the general and strategic orientation and objectives of the Cooperative, in addition to supervising its management, so that its actions meet the interests of its members. During the General Assembly, members of the Fiscal Council are also elected, a body that monitors compliance with the administration's legal and statutory duties. The Sicredi Valor Board of Directors Sustentável PR/SP is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the executive management of the business. Armando Yamaguchi Nadir Mazieiro Luis Carlos DiasFabiano Soares Naiani Pepe Rodrigo Dias BatistaJoão SocoloskiPlácido Caldas Filho President Edson Suguiama Hermógenes Donizete EleutérioEduardo Meinerz Director of OperationsMarcos Rabassi Vice-President Adilson CortezRosângela Pavezi Márcia Cristina Franzini CostaSergio Ciciliano Celso Santana de Oliveira Jean Correa BonatoManagement 2019-2023 Management 2021-2023 Rudenei Fischer Executive DirectorRegional Development ManagerRegional Development ManagerThere is an alternative. Choose Sicredi, where money makes a better world. The best for one can be the best for all.sicredi.com.br SAC - 0800 724 7220 Hearing or Speech Impaired - 0800 724 0525. Ombudsman 0800 646 2519. Yours Today's choices can generate a better future for you and for many people. By choosing Sicredi, you have a close and human service, in person and digitally, fair rates and ideal financial solutions for your life. And, when you grow, you also generate growth for everyone around you, because we reinvest resources in your region. Open an account with us. Point the camera on your cell phone and find out more. 25 Annual Report 2021 The Sicredi Valor Sustentável Women's Committee is made up of 35 associates from our area of ​​activity. In 2021, we carried out the “Entire women to womanize the world” program, with the Conducting Duomo Corporate Learning, there were 10 modules totaling 33 hours of training. The cooperative's Women's Committee program meets three SDGs, they are: “Quality Education” (SDG 4), which aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all; “Gender Equality” (SDG 5), achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls; “Decent Work and Economic Growth” (SDG 8), promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. The initiative is also aligned with the Global Network of Women Leaders of the World Council of Credit Unions (WOCCU). Spreading Cooperativism and Sustainability26 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP I would like to thank Sicredi Valor Sustentável for choosing me to participate in this project “Entires to Woman the Mundo” were 10 very intense modules with a lot of learning and content that I had never heard of, conscious and unconscious biases, values, roles, brands, it was very good, with each module a different learning experience, a different achievement, a liberation. What I've learned? I learned a lot of things and I'm moving forward in my cycle of friends and family, I discovered my roles as a woman, I'm a daughter, I'm a mother, I'm a wife, I'm a Physical Education teacher by training, for 23 I worked in this area for years and now I have my brand “Bolos Caseiros da Ziza” and help manage a rural property. Let's dream, make dreams come true, let's undertake, have courage and let's move forward, I thank you again for the opportunity I had to get to know myself and evaluate myself, the modules that covered values, family, achieving goals, commitment, how you married me and how valuable it was for me to see people and how they see me. Thank you all very much for this opportunity given to me, gratitude and congratulations to the entire Sicredi Valor Sustentável team and the Mari da Duomo team, thank you very much. ANA LUIZA PELISSARI BISPO MOITA Participant of the Intestas para Mulherar o Mundo Program. When I was invited to participate in the Mulherar Program through Sicredi, I confess that I was curious to discover its objective and what paths would be shown to us! Womanhood for me was a turning point, my life was transformed and today I know the roles I want play in my life, contributed to my personal and professional growth! Today I am guided towards engagement, growth and empathy! Thank you very much for all the learning provided and to all participants in the process, gratitude! CRISTINA MORALES COSTENARO MASCOTE Participant of the Whole Program to Womanize the World. 27 Annual Report 2021 Cooperativism: is an economic and social movement, between people, in which cooperation is based on the participation of members, in economic activities with a view to achieving the common good and promoting social reform within capitalism.” This is one of the definitions of cooperativism that we find on the internet. Very broad and well explained, but it does not compare to the definition and experience of cooperativism within Sicredi. I met and fell in love with the ideal and the way we are treated. The service is humanized and focused on our individual needs. We are human! This is perceived very clearly and pleasantly. Proof This means having, within an institution, with a financial function, a Women's Committee, and also receiving gifts: training, over the course of a year, talking exactly about our femininities and how to develop ourselves, thus being able to increasingly help our society and everyone around us. This was our Mulherar. Being a Core Coordinator at Sicredi is a source of pride. The concern for the city, for everyone's well-being (social actions), the focus on education (several projects already carried out in schools) and also the concern for personalized service to members are truly differentiating features of the cooperative. Each meeting, in person or online, held at the agency with the other coordinators, demonstrating the cooperative's actions and results, proves that we are growing within the city and valuing the best that we have here. Franca really received a great gift with the coming of the cooperative to the city and there are certainly still many good deeds and growth to come. JANE GRISIELE MARQUES FERREIRA Center Coordinator at Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP I would like to start my statement by thanking the Cooperative for having this invitation and thanking them for their commitment to qualifying us in order to trust us even more with work within Sicredi. The Mulherar program was incredible, I really had to unlearn and learn different tools both for positioning myself as a woman entrepreneur, as a wife, daughter, mother. I can say with certainty that the Womanhood was a turning point in my life. DIANA MARQUES DUARTE Participant of the Inteiras Program to Womanize the World. 28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP Nothing is more valid to start this text than with the word and feeling of gratitude. The distribution of toys to 100 needy children living in the city of Lunardelli/PR, with the help of CRAS (Social Services Reference Center) on December 22, 2021 was a reason for great joy for the little ones and their families and, consequently, for us in the Youth Committee and the Collaborators of the Lunardelli Agency. Since the beginning of the preparation of this project, which came to light in the second formation of the Youth Committee, in 2021, the euphoria and anxiety before us, the participants, was great. During this beautiful action, the help of traders, businesspeople, society in general, was very well received and returned to put into practice our intention of bringing joy, light and magic to the Children's Christmas. The action was named “Multiply Smiles”, and I can say, on behalf of the Lunardelli Youth Committee and collaborators, that yes, we have multiplied many smiles, including our own. As already mentioned, the community's acceptance was so great and plausible that, on December 28, 2021, we were able to rent some inflatable toys, bounce houses, popcorn, cotton candy and hold a night of great joy and fun for the children. and their families, where, Approximately, more than 215 children of the most diverse ages were there. I conclude this “summary” with a feeling of accomplishment. A gain, a personal transformation when seeing and feeling so much affection towards children who, often, would not even receive a Christmas souvenir and knowing that before them, this act can be kept in their memories forever and that is very gratifying. sing, in fact, “the essence of life is found in the look and the simplest smile of a child”. (PEREIRA, Alexandre G. P.) JOÃO MARCOS DA SILVA ANDRADE Member of the Youth Committee – Lunardelli Agency The Youth Committee Program's main objective is to attract and retain young members at Sicredi, with educational purposes, through personal and professional development actions , awakening their interest in participating in a cooperative financial organization, making it a promoter of cooperativism. In 2021, new members became part of this movement. MULTIPLY SORRISOS29 Annual Report 2021 Since 2021, I have participated in the Youth Committee. Being part of this team means cooperating daily for development and the community, carrying out actions that make a difference in the lives of the population. At the end of 2021, the agency, together with the Committee, carried out a solidarity action for needy children in the municipality. At Christmas, more than 90 toys were distributed, including modeling clay, crayons, story books, toys these, which in addition to promote fun, provide the development of skills: physical, cognitive, social and emotional. In the New Year, inflatable toys were set up in front of the agency, this action brought smiles to more than 300 children, who participated, played and had access to the entire space. It is gratifying to see the positive impact that Sicredi has on the community, since playing, in addition to being fun, is the pillar of children's growth, as it stimulates physical performance and motor, facilitates social interaction, creativity and imagination. Seeing the Cooperative take part in this access is an indescribable pleasure. THAÍZA MAREGA Member of the Youth Committee Established in April 2020, the Sustainability Committee aims to establish the support structure for the implementation of the Sustainability Policy and Systemic Sustainability Strategy, as one of the governance structures for the topic, advising the Board of Administration so that decision-making consider the responsibilities, opportunities and economic, social, environmental and climate challenges that involve themes relevant to sustainability at Sicredi. SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Since its creation, the Sustainability Committee has participated in the training program developed by Central Sicredi PR/ SP/RJ. The training lasts two years and the objective is to strengthen, develop and equip the committee to generate more awareness around the SDGs, develop local actions practices and increase the impact of the committee on the cooperative. KNOWING THE SDG30 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP Free budget planning workshops, financial education tips for children, teenagers and adults and constant training of volunteer employees who participate in projects on the topic. These are some of the initiatives that Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP has developed, over the years, with the aim of cooperating towards a more sustainable financial life for members and society. With this purpose, the cooperative participated in another edition of the National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week), held between the 8th and 14th of November, 12 actions impacted more than 1600 people, more than 1200 in the online format and more than 440 in face-to-face actions. Promote Financial Education During 2021, the actions of the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis impacted over 4600 people, reaffirming our commitment to financial inclusion and community development. With the standardization of the National Common Curricular Base (BNCC), financial education emerges as an integral part of the school curriculum, takes on an interdisciplinary character and is defined as essential learning for life. Within this context, the cooperative started the Jornada da Educação Financeira nas Escolas (Fundação Sicredi) project in 6 municipalities, covering more than 100 teachers in 10 schools, impacting more than 2,000 students from the municipal education network. More than 46 actions + 4600 people impacted31 Annual Report 2021 Talk to your manager or visit sicredi.com.br/investimentos Why invest with us?Invest with Sicredi. Here your investment yields more than money. Whatever your reason, investing with Sicredi is the best alternative. It may be because we know how to indicate the best solution for each profile and we put you first. Or because we reinvest the money in your region, boosting the local economy. SAVINGS: For those who like tradition, low risk and security. INVESTMENT FUNDS: For those who seek profitability and want to rely on diversification. FIXED INCOME: For those who want predictability, guarantees and attractive rates. PENSION PENSION: For those who want to guarantee a safe and peaceful future. SAC - 0800 724 7220 / Hearing or speech impaired - 0800 724 0525. Ombudsman - 0800 646 2519. Check availability with your cooperative.32 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sustainable Value PR|SP Surprising! This is how we can define the first training of Teachers for the implementation of the CPL Program (Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis), in Municipal Schools in the year 2022. Among 10 cooperatives that are part of the Sicredi system, we were the cooperative with the second largest participation of Teachers . Financial Education in Schools presents itself as a possibility to strengthen our participation in Basic Education in municipalities. This one The program aims to teach students how to establish a balanced relationship between desires and the real need for consumption, thus allowing them to plan their financial lives for the future, and also the effective practice of conscious consumption and concerned with environmental issues. . We have no doubt about the success of implementing and continuing this Program, but what awaits us is the requirement for a lot of work and dedication, as well as the participation of our Employees and Cooperated. CASSIO MARCELO Pedagogical Advisor PUFV (Programa A União Faz a Vida) FINANCIAL EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS 33 Annual Report 2021 In order to generate positive environmental impact while generating economic and social growth in communities, the Cooperative through the Central carried out the neutralization of 82.32 tCO2e* of Greenhouse Gases emitted in 2020. In 2021, Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ supported the Promote Eco-efficient Management Project of carbon credits of generation of electrical energy through collection of biogas from landfills (Aterro Bandeirantes/SP). *The acronym tCO2e stands for tons of CO2 equivalent and includes not only carbon dioxide but also other greenhouse gases converted into CO2. Without a shadow of a doubt, 2021 was a year full of challenges. As a Cooperative financial institution, we work towards our mission of “Valuing relationships, offering financial solutions to add income and contributing to the improvement the quality of life of members and society”. In the following pages, you, the reader, will be informed about some of the countless actions carried out to develop the communities in which we operate. Even in the face of so many difficulties and learning, you will realize how much was accomplished in 2021.Local development07Topic Local development36 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP The pandemic brought many challenges to the economy. The little ones and microentrepreneurs adapted to the new moment and sought to innovate to meet demands. With this in mind, Sicredi Valor Sustentável launched the Empreenda Sicredi program in partnership with Associação Aliança Empreendedora* The program provides members with free workshops, with content applicable to the entrepreneur's day-to-day practice. As with other Sicredi economic and social development programs, Fostering the Local Economy Emprenda Sicredi offers workshops For entrepreneurial members, they count on the participation of volunteer collaborators who have been trained to support the development of the workshops. In 2021, the program trained more than 90 participants from the municipalities of Jandaia do Sul, Marumbi, Corumbataí, Ivaiporã, Lidianópolis, Lunardelli, Barbosa Ferraz, Godoy Moreira and Cruzmaltina. *Associação Aliança Empreendedora is a non-profit organization, entitled OSCIP (Civil Society Organization of Public Interest) It was a great joy to be invited to participate in the Empreenda Project, without a doubt it was of great value, it was very important and it was learning that at the same time is basic, is extremely necessary to run a trade, a business and it really was very important and helped to open the mind and rethinking some attitudes in commerce, from controlling the trust to organizing the profit margin and it made us rethink some attitudes to improve and so it is something that will be marked in my mind and it really was very helpful in restructuring my business. BRUNO GOULART DE SOUZA Participant of the Empreenda Project 37 Annual Report 2021 I took the Empreenda course, a very good experience that organized my life and my company. After the course, I became interested in organizing my finances; As we are a family business, we take things a little slow. Congratulations to Sicredi for thinking about traders. FLÁVIA NAIR PAULO Partner of the company Nova Construsul de Corumbataí do South First of all I want to thank God, even more so after everything we've been through we are alive, my family for all their support and Sicredi for the opportunity they offered us, I've already taken other entrepreneurial courses and I've never understood so clearly how o Undertake Sicredi. Sicredi taught us how important it is to have discipline, that everything will work out, that light shined in my mind, looking ahead, always fighting, never giving up. Before I had another vision of Sicredi but now, we were so well received, that I feel comfortable saying that in a certain way, it will definitely be part of our lives. The Cooperative put us on the right path and we will continue with discipline, I am sure that Empreenda Sicredi was the beginning of so many good things that Sicredi will offer us. Together we will overcome everything that prevents us from growing. My victory has arrived, it is the opportunity I was waiting for, dreaming of, for Sicredi to achieve, thank you! CRISTIANE TEIXEIRA ALONSO GENU Participant of the Empreenda Project Contributing to the development of communities União Faz a Vida Program The União Faz a Vida Program has the pedagogical purpose of working with active methodologies, within what the BNCC requires, which guides us on the need to place our students as protagonists of the teaching-learning process, and no longer as passive subjects. Combining issues of a pedagogical nature with those of a social and economic nature, the Projects developed by teachers and students also aim to value the local context, in other words, the reality in which our students live, and in which the school is present. The use of an active teaching-learning methodology allows the natural movement of knowledge, from the local to the regional, and from the regional to the global, thus teaching us to live and co-exist with differences, as well as work towards inclusion cultural, social and economic. One of characteristics that constitute the active methodology developed by PUFV, is that the projects must be guided by the resources existing in the Schools, and which are inserted within the economic reality of each municipality. In a practical way, we can say that the concern is to teach the school community, to enhance existing resources, valuing the local community. In this year 2021, for the second consecutive year, we carried out the emotional health project “Hive of emotions”, with all teachers participating in the program, divided into modules, carried out monthly under the guidance of a psychologist. The numbers of the Program in the Cooperative are: (Jandaia, Marumbi, Corumbataí, Ivaiporã, Borrazópolis, Novo Itacolomi, Jardim Alegre)32 SCHOOL239 TEACHERS3563 STUDENTS07 CITIES 38 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SPO PUFV represents very well the ideals that guide cooperativism practiced by Sicredi, as we start from the concept of “citizenship and cooperation”, to form the “cooperative citizen”. We offer Teachers from the Municipal Public Education Network the opportunity for continued training, to work with active methodologies and project pedagogies, which specifically privilege the values ​​and citizens of each municipality in which we operate. We work on the “classroom floor”, we visit, get to know and identify with each of the Schools we serve, whether in the urban perimeter or in the districts. It is necessary to emphasize that Sicredi Valor Sustentável works in a different way, as in addition to attending to pedagogical and methodological issues, we also add care for the Mental Health of Teachers, with a professional trained for this type of action. Our work is unique in the municipalities where we operate, and in 2022 we will implement other actions in schools. Today we are the private institution with the largest presence in the area of ​​education, covering the region of performance of our Cooperative. CASSIO MARCELO, PUFV Pedagogical Advisor (Programa A União Faz a Vida) works in a different way, because in addition to attending to pedagogical and methodological issues, we also add care to the municipalities where we operate, and for the year 2022 we will implement other actions in education, covering the region of operation 39 Annual Report 2021Being a partner with Sicredi means developing projects that leave the paper and develop based on reality, curiosity, dreams and desires of students and teachers. It's keeping your feet on the ground and still flying high. It's knowing that we can really have someone to count on. Sicredi Valor Sustentável is a humanized and humanizing cooperative that has a perspective on people that no other credit cooperative has and this makes it so special. Gratitude for this partnership. DAIANE PEREIRA SOARES Secretary of Education of the Municipality of Ivaiporã I always say that the municipality of Borrazópolis was very happy to establish a partnership with Sicredi, joining the A União faz a Vida Program and one of Patrícia's speeches in the presentation of the program that caught my attention was “teachers should be part of the program of their own free will and that it shouldn't be something imposed” and that was something different, because whenever companies offer us programs or projects, they want teacher participation to be massive and it doesn't always give satisfactory results. With the União faz a Vida program, we notice that each year the number of teachers interested in being part of the program increases because they see that it is something that gives results and those who benefit from it, besides the teachers, are the students who are served with these projects, last year when we had the formation of the Cooperation project in Ponta do Lápis, we had the option of joining the training for financial education offered by the Central Bank, however, we opted for the training offered by Sicredi, through the program A União faz a Vida through Sicredi professionals and Professor Cássio, because we already know the acceptance that teachers have towards him. The year 2021 was not easy due to the pandemic, but Sicredi, with the A União faz a Vida Program, found a way to work on emotional development with teachers through training with psychologist Maressa França with the Colmeia das Estações project that came add and help the teacher to deal with calmer and lighter the pandemic, both students and teachers needed something like this to work on the emotional side and it only added even more. We just have to thank Sicredi and we are very happy with this partnership. CÉLIA NOVAIS DOURADO RODRIGUES Pedagogical Coordinator of the Department of Education of the Municipality of Borrazópolis 40 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SPA partnership between the Municipal Department of Education of Marumbi and Sicredi Valor Sustainable PR/SP held in 2019, provided opportunities and many benefits to teachers and students. In 2020 and 2021, due to the pandemic, the project was carried out online. Emphasizing that the concern and dedication towards all agents included in the program are commendable. Reinventing yourself and valuing mainly mental and emotional health, through monthly meetings with psychologist Maressa Viera França. In addition to counting on pedagogical advice from the professor Cássio Marcelo Mochi, working on financial education, with the project: At the tip of the pencil, among others. The municipality of Marumbi represented by Mayor Adhemar Francisco Rejani and myself Cristiani Brionis de Brito Gomes, together with the coordinator Fernanda Gomes and the entire pedagogical team made up of teachers, directors and pedagogues, we can only thank you for your brilliant and exemplary role in helping to sow and cultivate the idea of ​​a better country, with quality of life. Reflecting the awareness and commitment of each one in the noble mission of joining forces in each meeting with the objective of reviving hope for better days, reinforcing and praising the importance and value of teachers, even in the face of the sad situation that has devastated several Nations. We appreciate all the commitment, persistence and dedication of everyone who awakens a feeling of eternal gratitude in many municipalities. CRISTIANI BRIONIS DE BRITO GOMES Municipal Secretary of Education in Marumbi-PR Borrazópolis can only benefit from the partnership we have with Sicredi, both in the A União Faz a Vida program and in the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis program, the training and assistance provided to our teachers are excellent, where we had great participation, our students will benefit greatly from these trainings. Thank you for all the support from Sicredi. RENATA DOS SANTOS FIGUEIREDO BRITO Local Coordinator of the A União Faz a Vida Program41 Annual Report 202142 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP C Day Cooperate Day Traditionally, Sicredi actively participates in Cooperate Day (C Day), celebrated on July 3rd. Several actions by our agencies were aimed at collecting food and raised more than 30 tons. Donations directly benefited more than 3,300 people experiencing food insecurity. CHECK OUT SOME OF THE ACTIONS CARRIED OUT. Caldo do Bem in Jandaia do Sul-PR (awarded by the Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ Caldo do Bem43 Annual Report 2021 Cleaning of the Água do Milton river (river that supplies the municipality of Godoy Moreira-PR) In the action entitled Gente Que Coopera, Cresce e Alimenta, donations of blankets, clothes and lunch boxes were made for homeless people in Franca -SPcleaning the river people who cooperate, grow and feed44 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP Lives on sexual violence against children and adolescents and violence against women (carried out by the agencies in Ivaiporã, Lidianópolis, Jardim Alegre and Cruzmaltina). live other actions of the day of the agency and we managed to make more than 100 contacts from potential customers and from these customers we had approximately 10% return and these customers came to our store who they didn't know and got to know after our exhibition in the Member's Space. This attitude that Sicredi had was a very cool attitude for small business owners and I hope they can maintain it, because it really had an effect for my business, I managed to work with these contacts, I got them to come to me and I got them to become store customers, all this through this partnership we formed with Sicredi, I am grateful for the invitation and I hope to be participating in other opportunities soon. JAQUELINE CARVALHO BACH Owner of the Dondoka Biju store and associate of Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SPO growth in the regions is one of our commitments. As a cooperative financial institution, we reinvest resources in the form of credit for members, entrepreneurs, rural producers and social projects. The I Cooperate with the Local Economy initiative reinforces this, supporting people and generating a positive impact in the regions. Local Economy Get to know the movement by accessing QR CODE Based In the I Cooperate with the Local Economy initiative, we created the “Associate Space” project at the Ivaiporã/PR branch. The project opens the doors of the cooperative so that members can showcase their products and services and generate business. I am grateful for the opportunity to take my company to the Associate Space where I could exhibit my products, make new contacts, sell my products and represent my company in this cooperative, so I want to thank you for this opportunity and say that it was a wonderful experience and that Sicredi continues with this project so that it can promote its members and their companies. ISABELA RAZALKIEWICZ Owner of the BELLA store and associate of Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP. Cooperating with the Local Economy yields a Better World46 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP 47 Annual Report 2021 Topic Development of employees Topic Topic Development Development of employees of employees 48 Report Annual 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP The year 2021 began with a great challenge: to continue fighting against a still unknown pandemic, in which the number of deaths in Brazil was growing daily, however, with a ray of hope: the vaccine. Faced with these challenges, the Cooperative's People Management area planned its work even more carefully, as there were still traces of fear and insecurity, however, the Cooperative's great demand due to its Development of Employees Growth required assertive training and development planning for its workforce. With this in mind, we had two main focuses: improving quality of life through projects that develop emotional and physical health and through a pleasant climate in the work environment and promoting the professional development of employees through training programs. To this end, we will mention some of the projects carried out during 2021 below: LECTURE CYCLE: “Moment of Value”, in which the objective was to set aside a moment to awaken in employees the importance of caring for their physical and emotional health. CLIMATE SURVEY: It was carried out by GPTW, in which the Cooperative achieved a confidence index of 95%, being above the index of our Central (PR/SP/RJ) which was 91% and the Sicredi System which was 88%.49 Annual Report 2021 TRAINING PROGRAM WITH THE BUSINESS AREA: in which the team was challenged to work more strategically, meeting the needs of our associates in a more assertive way. VACCINOMETER: Monitoring the vaccination rate of employees (1st and 2nd dose), in which the main aim was to awaken employees to the importance of vaccination, to reduce Covid cases. TRAINING PROGRAM FOR NEW AGENCY MANAGERS: Aiming to meet the demand for expansion of our Cooperative and promote the professional and personal development of our employees DALE CARNEGIE COURSE: It was attended by all Agency Managers, Headquarters Advisors, Regional Development Managers and Board of Directors. A completely practical training, which aims to develop self-confidence, interpersonal relationships, leadership and public speaking.50 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP Talking about Sicredi is SUPER EASY, there is no more wonderful place, there is welcome, concern, recognition, affection and lots of joy. This gesture of LOVE fascinates me, as it makes the work environment pleasant. Fulfillment and gratitude sum up my feelings for Sicredi. RAIANE ACASSIA DE MIRANDA E MOLONHA Individual Business Manager - Ivaiporã – PR, Climate Survey 2021 The main return I got from this training was regaining my self-confidence and proving to people and especially to myself that I can achieve things that would often be too much difficult or even impossible due to my shyness and insecurity. Another feedback I got was the improvement in my interpersonal relationships with my children and wife. Being less anxious because I started to practice the rules of human relations with them and started to listen more and enjoy family life more. Not just being present at home, but being present. I greatly improved my way of approaching professional life more gently, not with iron and fire, and I obtained the greatest award that anyone can seek in the professional field, which was the recognition from my co-workers. LUIZ CLAUDIO FERREIRA Infrastructure Advisor, Participant of the Dale Carnegie Course 2021 Training The feeling of participating in the New Manager Training Program is one of appreciation and recognition and at the same time challenging, requiring new skills and self-knowledge, enhancing my potential. The training presented a leader's systemic vision, the importance of inspiring, motivating people, leading strategically in the search for results. FABIELE ALVES DA COSTA Individual Business Manager - Jandaia do Sul – PR, Participant in the Training of New Agency Managers 2021For 2022, the People Management area will continue working with projects that develop well-being, in addition to training and development of our employees. We believe that well-trained, healthy and satisfied employees at work can offer a higher quality service to associates. JULIANA JACOVOZZI TORTORELLI People Management Advisor51 Annual Report 2021 Expansion Following the Cooperative's expansion plan, in 2021, we opened branches in Cruzmaltina/PR and began our activities in the municipality of Grandes Rios/PR. GRANDES RIVERS CRUZMALTINA Access the video through QRCode and see what the inauguration of Grandes Rios was like52 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP The cooperative also invested in the revitalization of its branches, delivering to the community of Lidianópolis/PR a more welcoming, modern and private agency for service. LIDIANÓPOLIS53 Annual Report 2021 DETRACTORS Unhappy with the high chance of negative publicity among friends. % Promoters % Detractors Net Promoter Score (NPS)Extremely Unlikely NPS Calculation - = Extremely Likely NEUTRALS Indifferent. Easy to be convinced by competitors. They recommend the company, but with reservations. PROMOTERS They recommend it to everyone. They accelerate the company's growth. RATING OF 0 - 6 RATING OF 7 - 8 RATING OF 9 – 10Associates recognize the work of the cooperative Sicredi Valor Sustentável has its members as its reason for existing, based on this, several initiatives have promoted the economy, prosperity and local development. In 2021, they recognized the cooperative's work through the high level of satisfaction attributed to the NPS (Net Promoter Score) survey: 75.48%*, 7.97 percentage points higher than the result of 2020, awarded the degree of excellence for the cooperative's services. The survey is carried out by telephone, from Mondays to Fridays, from 9am to 9pm, and on Saturdays, from 10am to 4pm (regulated times). Members of the individual segments (urban and rural areas) and legal entities are researched, between 18 and 70 years old, with an active current account, more than one contracted product/service and account opening time of more than 90 days. NPS IS EVALUATED IN THE FOLLOWING WAY: *research result NPS for December 2021. Net Promoter Score, or NPS®, is a methodology created by Fred Reichheld in the USA, with the aim of measuring the level of customer loyalty in any type of company. Its wide use is due to the tool's simplicity, flexibility and reliability. 54 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP FORBERS In 2021, Sicredi ranked seventh in the country in the World’s Best Banks 2021 ranking, prepared by Forbes in partnership with the Statista statistics. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. The survey, of a popular nature, took into account the opinion of 43 thousand respondents, from 28 different countries and evaluated the institutions based on general satisfaction and recommendation, giving scores based on their experience. VALUE 1000 The institution came in 9th place in the classification of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. Furthermore, Sicredi also highlighted in 11 other categories of the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. Among the highlights, it occupied 4th place among the 20 most Profitable on Equity and 7th Credit Operations, Total Deposits.FINANCES MAIS We achieved a prominent position in the Finances Mais ranking, published by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo in partnership with credit risk rating agency Austin Rating. Participating in the yearbook through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, Sicredi was ranked 6th in the “Banks – Financing” category. RECOGNITION FROM BNDES Sicredi's good performance in the credit lines made available by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) in 2020, to minimize the impacts of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, was recognized by the “Project Incentives for Financial Agents” , from the development bank. BROADCAST PROJECTIONS AWARD Sicredi was highlighted in the Broadcast Projeções Award. The institution ranked 6th place in the General Top and 7th in the Basic Top. In its 15th edition, the award is based on the AE Projeções ranking and aims to reward institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators come closest to reality. Awards and Recognition BEST AND BIGGEST In the Exame Melhores & Maiores 2021 guide, through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, one of the structures that make up the cooperative financial institution, ranked 15th among the Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Prepared since 1974, the yearbook presents the largest companies in Brazil based on the evaluation of economic-financial criteria, growth and adoption of ESG practices.55 Annual Report 2021 FGV FUND GUIDE AWARD Sicredi, through its Asset, won first place in the Money Market category for Specialist Assets in the 2021 edition of the FGV Fund Guide, organized by the Center for Financial Studies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas. TOP 100 OPEN CORPS In 2021 fi We are in this ranking for the third time, which references the 100 most open-to-innovation companies in Brazil. The most attractive startups are selected by large companies to collaborate in the development of high-impact innovations for society and the market. AGTECH GARAGE AWARD Sicredi was the winner of the AgTech Garage Awards, an award given by one of the largest innovation hubs in Latin America for agribusiness, AgTech Garage. The winning case involves the development of a tool for rural management, built in partnerships with the startup Elysios, in the first edition of the startup empowerment program, Intensive Connection. GPTW CERTIFICATION In August 2021, Sicredi became a company certified by GPTW, being able to to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking that lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. With an approval rate of 88%, the fact of being jpa certified is an important achievement for a company of Sicredi's size and breadth. WYCUP - WORLD COUNCIL YOUNG CREDIT UNION PEOPLE Sicredi was featured in the World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup), a program that recognizes young leaders for significant contributions to their communities and credit unions and who have the potential to make a global impact. The event was part of another edition of the Woccu ​​World Conference, held between the 14th and 21st of July, which took place virtually on behalf of of the pandemic. The cooperative financial institution had five winners among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects registered from 13 different countries. 56 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP 57 Annual Report 2021 Topic Topic Topic Our StatementsOur Statements58 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SP ACTIVE 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS ACTIVE 833,233 598,734 AVAILABILITY S 4,565 3,801 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 815,568 585,131 Interﬁnancial liquidity applications 12,511 8,254 Securities 144,310 - Financial centralization 77,285 201,729 Active interﬁnancial relationships 137 131 Credit operations 550.97 2 357,036 Other financial assets 30,353 17,981 PROVISIONS FOR EXPECTED LOSSES ASSOCIATED WITH CREDIT RISK (16,202) (11,074 ) OTHER ASSETS 4,161 4,149 INVESTMENTS 9,838 4,956 FIXED ASSETS IN USE 13,260 9,745 INTANGIBLE 2,043 2,026 TOTAL ASSETS 833,233 598,734 LIABILITIES 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS LIABILITIES 752,632 5 42,008 DEPOSITS 434,783 397,754 Demand deposits 108,558 96,341 Interbank deposits 102,133 98,611 Term deposits 224,092 202,802 OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 277,662 115,449 Interﬁnancial relations 256,409 109,914 Loan obligations 3,378 3,337 Transfer obligations 446 737 Other financial liabilities 17,429 1,461 PROVISIONS FOR CIVIL, TAX AND LABOR RISKS 288 304 OTHER LIABILITIES 39,899 28,501 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 8 0.601 56,726 SHARE CAPITAL 34,810 23,129 SURPLUS RESERVES 42,823 31,692 SURPLUS OR ACCUMULATED LOSSES 2,968 1,905 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 833,233 598,734 Balance Sheet Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Valor Sustentável - Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SPCNPJ/MF n o 81.706.616/0001-84Here you have access to the statements of our cooperative. On 12/31/2021 (In thousands of reais)59 Annual Report 2021 Statement of SurplusCredit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Valor Sustentável - Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP CNPJ/MF no 81.706.616/0001-84 DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS01/01 /2021 to 12/31/202101/01/2020 to 12/31/2020 TICKETS AND RECIPES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION 80,214 53,824 EXPENSES AND EXPENSES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION (31,083) (15,703) GROSS RESULT FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION 49,131 38,121 OTHER INCOME AND REVENUES/EXPENSES AND OPERATING EXPENSES (29.84 0) (24,798) OPERATING RESULT 19,291 13,323 NON-OPERATING RESULT - - BEFORE RESULT TAXATION ON PROFIT 19,291 13,323 INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION - (344) PARTICIPATION IN LEFTOVERS (3,369) (2,823) BEFORE RESULT OF SHAREHOLDINGS 15,922 10,156 ALLOCATIONS (12,954) (8,251) Interest on Capital (1,082) (633) Fates - Statutory (742) (476) Legal Reserve - Statutory (11,130) (7,142) LEFTOVERS OR LOSSES PROVIDED BY AGM 2,968 1905 Opinion of the Fiscal Council As members of the Fiscal Council of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Valor Sustentável  - Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP and in the exercise of legal and statutory powers, we examine the Management Report and Financial Statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses, Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, Statement of Cash Flows, Explanatory Notes and other statements, and the respective audit report on the financial statements, these documents relate to the year ending December 31, 2021. According to the Governance policies adopted by the Cooperative and based on our examinations, We are in favor of approving the aforementioned statements. Jandaia do Sul, March 3, 2022.     Adilson Da Silva Cortez AdvisorCelso Santana de Oliveira AdvisorEdson Hideo Suguiama Advisor     Adilson Da Silva Cortez Advisor Edson Hideo Suguiama Advisor Edson Hideo Suguiama Advisor Edson Hideo Suguiama (In thousands of reais)60 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustainable PR|SP Iguatemi Business Avenida Nilo Peçanha, 2.900 9th floor - Chácara das Pedras 91.330-001 - Porto Alegre - RS - Brazil Tel: +55 51 3204-5500 ey.com.brIndependent auditor's report on the financial statements To the Administrators and Associates of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Valor Sustentável - Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR /SP Jandaia do Sul / PR. Opinion We examined the financial statements of the Cooperativa de Crédito, Poupança e Investimento Valor Sustentável - Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP (“Cooperative”), which comprise the balance sheet equity as of December 31, 2021, and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year ending on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including the summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above adequately present, in all material aspects, the equity and financial position of the Cooperativa de Credit, Savings and Investment Valor Sustentável - Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR/SP on December 31, 2021, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with the applicable accounting practices adopted in Brazil to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Basis for opinionOur audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities in compliance with such standards, are described in the following section, entitled “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report The Cooperative's board of directors is responsible for this other information that comprises the Management Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Management Report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on that report. In connection with the audit of financial statements financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Management Report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained from the audit, or otherwise appears to be distorted in a relevant way. If, based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is a material distortion in the Management Report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Management and governance responsibilities for the financial statements The management is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and for the internal controls that it determined as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. When preparing the financial statements, the board is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of the financial statements unless the board intends liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or have no realistic alternative to avoid closing operations. Responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for auditing the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and to issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any existing relevant distortions. Distortions may result from fraud or error and are considered material when, individually or together, they can influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users taken based on the aforementioned financial statements. As part of audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. In addition: - We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, plan and execute audit procedures in response to such risks, and obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve circumventing internal controls, collusion, falsification, omission or intentional false representations. - We have obtained an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal controls of the Cooperative. - We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board. - We conclude on the adequacy of the use, by the board, of the operational continuity accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is relevant uncertainty in relation to events or conditions that may raise significant doubts in relation to the Cooperative's operational continuity capacity. If If we conclude that there is material uncertainty, we must draw attention in our audit report to the respective disclosures in the financial statements or include a change in our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer maintain operational continuity. - We evaluate the general presentation, the structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner compatible with the objective of fair presentation. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other things, the scope and timing of planned audit work and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, February 25, 2022ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC – 2SP015199/F-7 Américo F. Ferreira Neto Contador CRC-1SP192685/O-9 Américo F. Ferreira Neto 61 Annual Report 2021 • Current Account • Business Cards • Solutions of Payments and Receipts • Payroll • Collection • Check Custody • Card Machine • Banking Domicile • Credit • Financing • Credit for Investments BNDES • Investments • Corporate Pensions • Foreign Exchange • Digital Certification • Consortia • InsuranceFor your company • Foreign Exchange • Cards • Digital Certification • Current Account • Rural Credit • Investment Credit BNDES • Consortia • Financing • Investments • Payments and Receipts • Insurance • SavingsFor your agribusiness • Sicredi App • ATM • Internet Banking • Telephone ServicesChannelsFor you • Exchange • Credit and Debit Card • Certification Digital • Automatic Debit • Authorized Direct Debit • Current Account • Credit (Personal, Vehicles, Real Estate) • Consortiums • Investments • Pensions • Payments and Receipts • Savings • Insurance Responsible Solutions Because we are a cooperative financial institution, in which the member is the one who decides the direction of the business, our main objective is to meet your financial needs. When he prospers, we all prosper together. Therefore, we seek to develop solutions appropriate to your moment in life, that positively impact your financial health and are capable of adding income to your personal projects, your company or agribusiness. DISCOVER SOME OF THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WE OFFER: Service network HEADQUARTERS REGIONAL SUPERINTENDENCE - JANDAIA DO SUL - PRPraça do Café, 66Phone: 43-3432 9440 / 3432 4800 AG. BARBOSA FERRAZ - PR Rua Marechal Deodoro, 862Phone: 44 3275-2428 / 2159 AG. BOM SUCESSO - PR Av. Julio Alves Machado, 136 Phone: 43 3442-1603 / 1371 AG. BORRAZÓPOLIS - PR Av. Brasil, 1703 Phone: 43 3452-2400 AG. CORUMBATAÍ DO SUL - PR Rua Guarani, 156Phone: 44 3277-1252 AG. CRUZMALTINA - PR Av. Padre Gualter Farias Negrão, 460Phone: 43 3454 1137 AG. FRANCA - SP Av. Presidente Vargas, 794Phone: 16 3721-3782 AG. FRANCA CENTRO - SP Rua Major Claudiano, 2017Phone: 16 3721 3265 AG. FRANCA ESTAÇÃO - SP Rua General Osório, 212Phone: 16 3721-5266 AG. GRANDES RIOS - PR Av. Brasil, 282Phone: 43 3432-4890AG. GODOY MOREIRA - PRRua José Marcilio de Oliveira, 400 AFone: 43 3463-1183 AG. IVAIPORÃ - PR Av. Brasil, 615Phone: 43 3472-3070 AG. JANDAIA DO SUL - PR Praça do Café, 66Phone: 43 3432-9400 AG. JARDIM ALEGRE - PR Av. Matos Leão, 664Phone: 43 3475 1980 AG. LIDIANOPOLIS - PR Av. Santa Catarina, 348 Phone: 43 3473-1358 AG. LUNARDELLI - PR Rua São Paulo, 222Phone: 43 3478-1613 AG. MARUMBI - PR Av. Tiradentes, 1075 Phone 43 3441-1401 AG. NOVO ITACOLOMI - PR Av. 28 de Setembro, 893Phone: 43 3437-1230ReportAnnual ReportAnnualAnnual Report GENERAL COORDINATION Communications and Marketing AdvisoryMaykon Jackson ReisDébora Lopes BrasileiroAdriano César da Silva SUPPORT AND REVIEW Patrícia Goularte Marafon Sakamoto (Cooperative Development Manager) Patrícia Karina Flausino Melo (Executive Secretary) Luiz Felipe Perciliano de OliveiraRoberto Luiz NetoAmarildo Ostapechem Ferreira DIAGRAM Bebop Communication and MarketingAnderson Antikievicz Costa Positive Graphic Printing Circulation: 1,000 copies64 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Valor Sustentável PR|SPsicredisicredi .com.br.com.br /sicredivalorsustentavel Telephone services (Capitals and metropolitan regions)3003 4770 * Cost of a local call SAC (Information, compliments and complaints)0800 724 7220 Telephone services Other and regions0800 724 4770 Assistance for people with hearing or speech impairments0800 724 0525 Ombudsman and Complaints: 0800 646 2519 International Calls (collect)0513 378 4472