Classification of information: Internal Use BELONGING REGULATION CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This Regulation governs the procedures that govern the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management and development process of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - Credit System Cooperative, hereinafter simply referred to as “cooperatives” or “cooperative”. Single paragraph. In addition to the provisions in the caput, the Program also m aims to equip cooperatives in order to increase the participation of members in matters related to their management and development, through centers. Art. 2 The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 3 The provisions contained in these Regulations regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after the amendment of the cooperative's bylaws, contemplating this form of participation, in accordance with current regulations, and apply to cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 1 It is optional for co-operatives that serve specific segments and/or categories to adopt this form of member participation as long as they have the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 2 For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will be called coordinator core in this Regulation. CHAPTER II CORE MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES Art. 4 A meeting is considered to be a meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members to discuss matters related to the management and development of the cooperative, such as: I - operations and services; II - strategic planning; III - target plan; IV – semi-annual reporting; Information classification: Internal Use V - promotion of cooperative culture; VI - governance and leadership training; VII - cooperative development programs in society; VIII - matters of specific interest to the membership, nucleus or those defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Single paragraph. The meetings will be organized and held with the prior knowledge of the Board of Directors. Art. 5 A core assembly is considered to be an event held with members with the aim of deliberate on: I - the election and dismissal of the core coordinator, effective and substitutes; II - the matters of the cooperative's general assembly, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 1 The call for core assemblies, containing the date, time, place and/or form of their holding and matters to be resolved, will be made through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably at least at least a day in advance. 10 (ten) days. § 2 The call will, as a rule, be made by the President of the Board of Directors. § 3 In the event that the call for the general meeting is carried out by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, core assemblies must automatically be called. § 4 If the provisions of the previous paragraph occur, at the At least 3 (three) counselors or associates must sign the notice. § 5 The nucleus may call the nucleus assembly to dismiss or elect its nucleus coordinator. § 6 The core assembly, regardless of its form, will be considered valid when, at the end, it is attended by at least 10 (ten) members per core. § 7 If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per nucleus, there must be a new call in accordance with § 1 of this article. If there is not enough time to call it, the core vote will not be considered at the general assembly. § 8 The participation of members in the core assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors, who may choose between in-person, semi-in-person or digital forms, without prejudice to the recording of their manifestations in the voting exercise. Classification of information: Internal Use §9 ​​The matters of core assemblies will be considered approved by majority of gifts. §10. In the event of a tie in the core vote, the core coordinator will vote to break the tie. §11. In the event of the absence of effective core coordinators and alternates, it will be considered not approved. §12. In the event of a tie in the voting for candidates for the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, if the effective core coordinators and substitute(s) are absent, the candidate whose group of candidates presents the longest average length of service will be considered the winner. membership of the cooperative. §13. When holding core assemblies in a blended or digital format, a channel for interaction with the cooperative will be made available. Art. 6 In addition to the specificities described in articles 4 and 5, core meetings and core assemblies are recognized spaces for qualified participation of members with questions, demonstrations and strategic contributions, as well as learning, formation of cooperative identity and in belonging . Single paragraph. The actions structured throughout the year will be considered an integral part of the annual assembly movement when attendance is duly recorded in the P ertencer Program tool, and its activities and results are included in the minutes for the respective treatment. CHAPTER III MEMBERS Art. 7 The rights of members, in addition to those set out in the cooperative's Bylaws, are: I - to vote and be voted for as core coordinator; II - propose to the core coordinator any matters of interest to the cooperative to be explained at meetings.; III - Discuss and vote on the matters covered by the core assembly. Art. 8 The attitudes expected from members are: I - knowing and practicing cooperativism; II - nominate new members; III - submit suggestions to the nucleus for consideration to improve operations, services, customer service, facilities, among others; IV - make yourself available as candidate for core coordinator. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER IV OF CORE Art. 9º The group of members of the cooperative is considered a nucleus, taking into account the following premises: I - the cooperative will define the number of members per nucleus, observing the limit of nuclei established in the Bylaws, through registration in the minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. The number of members per core cannot be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II - after this definition, the number of members grouped in groups cannot exceed a variation of 50% (fifty percent) more or less; III - the cooperative must have at least 11 (eleven) member groups, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - to guarantee the right to vote for members of newly opened agencies or those who have not reached the number defined in item I of this article by the Board of Directors, it will be up to the latter to define the form of participation of these members in the centers; V - each nucleus will have an effective nucleus coordinator and at least 1 (one) substitute at the time of election, and the number of substitutes may be established by the Board of Directors; VI - the grouping into nuclei must observe the best service for the member, respecting the nucleation criteria defined by the Board of Directors; VII - the cooperative will define the number of cores grouped in the same core assembly, preferably not exceeding 5 (five), in the case of in-person assemblies. § 1 When the number of core members exceeds the variation of 50% (fifty percent) of members, more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in section I of this article. § 2 When the number of centers in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote the change of this. § 3 When the Board of Directors decides to reduce the number of cooperative centers, there will be an automatic loss of mandate for the coordinators of the extinct center. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER V THE CORE COORDINATOR Art. 10. The core coordinator is the individual member elected at the core assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and represent members at general assemblies, when the cooperative adopts this modality. Art. 1 1. To apply and carry out the activities of center coordinator, the applicant must: I - have certification in the Crescer Program; II - make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a party political position or function upon election, or during the exercise of the mandate, in compliance with the provisions of the Social Statute of the company operative; IV - not respond, due to pending issues related to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, in addition to not having a negative record in any databases, external or within the cooperative itself , as well as having promoted or being promoting, as a party or attorney-in-fact, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi; V - not to be employee of the cooperative or having been dismissed from the cooperative for just cause; and VI - not be a former counselor or ex-director who has been subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of his term of office or who, for the same reasons, has been removed or resigned from the position for which he was held elected. Art. 1 2. The duties of the nucleus coordinator will be considered: I – when invited by the Board of Directors, participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the cooperative's social projects; II - participate in core coordinator meetings, core meetings and core assembly; III - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - participate, when invited by the President or Board Member, in events of interest to the cooperative; and V - participate in the training of coordinators in the cooperative, spreading cooperativism. Single paragraph. Member data cannot be provided by the cooperative to the center coordinator, due to the confidentiality of information. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 1 3. In addition to the matters set out in the sections of art. 4 of these Regulations, the following will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of core coordinators: I - preparation of core assemblies that precede the general assemblies; II - issues related to cooperative development; III - analysis of the cooperative's economic and financial situation; IV - others of interest to the cooperative administration. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTION PROCESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 1 4. The election of core coordinators will take place at a core assembly in good time before the general meeting of the cooperative, and the candidate must register on a form provided by the cooperative, within the period established in the convocation of the core assembly. Single paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with the requirements for the role and notify the candidate. Art. 1 5. The term of office of the core coordinators will comply with the term set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 1 6. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 1 7. The following will be considered as elected core coordinators: I - the most voted and the second most voted by the nucleus will respectively be considered effective coordinator and substitute coordinator, and so on depending on the greater number of substitutes; II - the members with the highest number of votes, when presented as candidates jointly (effective and alternate(s)), the order of substitute(s) indicated; III - the members presented as the only candidates (effective and substitute(s)), acclaimed by the Core Assembly. § 1 In any of the hypotheses of items I and II of this article, the replacement order must be recorded in the election minutes. Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 In the event of a tie in voting, the member who will perform the duties of effective core coordinator will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, the same rule being valid for substitutes. Art. 1 8. The investiture of core coordinators will occur automatically after the announcement of the election results. Art. 1 9. In the event of a vacancy in the effective core coordinator, the first substitute will take over the role. If there are no substitutes to take over, the core members will elect new core coordinators in accordance with these Regulations, effective and alternate(s), to fulfill the remainder of the term. § 1 The hypotheses of vacancy for core coordinators are: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without justification, the general assembly of the cooperative, the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, resignation and dismissal; IV - health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in their duties; V - as a party or attorney-in-fact, promote legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; VI - no longer meets the conditions for the role of core coordinator, as per this Regulation; VII - be elected member of the Cooperative's Board of Directors or Supervisory Board, or even director; VIII - exercise a vote at the general assembly that differs from that defined by the nucleus; IX - hold a position on corporate bodies in a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; X - transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; and XI - become an employee of another financial institution. § 2 In the event that the core coordinator is appointed as a candidate for a party political position, he/she must submit a request for resignation within 48h (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed or 48h (forty-eight hours) after having assumed one of the Classification of information: Internal use of the positions mentioned above, under penalty of the position becoming vacant. For the purposes of this Regulation, party political position is understood to be the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws. § 3º The dismissal of the c The nucleus coordinator will occur by deliberation of the members in the nucleus assembly. Other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. CHAPTER VII REPRESENTATIVENESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 20. The effective core coordinators will be summoned to represent the members at the general assemblies of the cooperative and, if they are unable to attend, their substitutes. § 1 Whenever the core coordinator member is present at the general meeting, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. § 2 As soon as he becomes aware of the impossibility of attending the general assembly or needs to be absent when it has already started, the effective nucleus coordinator must communicate the fact to his deputy and also to the cooperative, for his replacement. § 3º If it is impossible for the core coordinator, effective and alternate(s), to participate in the general assembly, the The president of the assembly will ask the secretary or another associate, who will act as representative for the act, to present the vote, reading the result of the vote of the respective nucleus, in order to be computed at the general assembly, restrictively to those matters which were previously considered at the Core Assembly. § 4 According to the system provided for in § 4 of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the core coordinator's vote will be linked to the decisions of the core that it represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the core assembly. § 5 The absence of the coordinator at the general assembly will be informed by the cooperative to the respective core at the first core assembly to be held. CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 2 1. The nucleus coordinator will not receive any type of financial compensation, except for the reimbursement of his expenses for carrying out the function, which must be decided by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 2 2. Meetings and core assemblies held by the cooperative must be registered in advance in the Pertencer Program management tool. Art. 2 3. The cooperative starting its activity or recently integrated into the System will join this Program after evaluation and recommendation from the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. This Belonging Regulation was approved in General Meeting held on 04/02/2022.