CRÉD COOPERATIVA | OF CREDIT — SICREDI RIO GRANDE DO NORTE. in the use of the attributions conferred on it by article 14. of the Bylaws and article 6. §2. of the Regulations of the Pertencer Program. calls upon associates from all areas of the ) municipality(s) of CAICO — CURRAIS NOVOS — GOIANINHA - MOSSORO and PAU DOS FERROS. to meet in CORE ASSEMBLY. in digital mode. which will open on November 28, 2023, at 12pm and close on November 28, 2023. at 4pm. via Tool Belonging. according to the instructions detailed at the end. to deﬁne the positioning of the nucleus on the following: AGENDA I. Election of the Nucleus Coordinator and his/her Substitute(s). in accordance with the Pertercer Program Regulations. Deadline for registration of those interested in the position of Core Coordinator: members interested in occupying the position of Niicleo Coordinator (Delegate). effective or alternate. You will be able to register with the Cooperative branches until 22/‘H/2023. filling out the appropriate form. The duties and requirements of the Nucleus Coordinator are detailed in the Pertencer Program Regulations, available at the Cooperative's branches. Christmas.November 17, 2023 Observations: 1. Instructions for participating in voting in the Belonging Tool: During the period in which the Core Assembly is open. Members will be able to access the Belonging Tool through the website https://fundacaosicredi.com.br/assembleias/, registering and identifying themselves with their CPF and password, using any device with internet, or using equipment available at the company's branches. Cooperative. during office hours to pClbliC0. opportunity in which entry into the Core Assembly and the exercise of the right to demonstrate and vote will be admitted. digitally. 2. The vote collection period has ended. The results will be calculated and published on the email address www.sicredi.corn.br/riograndedonorte and on the notice boards of the service units. 3. Decisions made by the nuclei in the presence of will be considered valid. at least. ‘I0 (ten) associates.