SOCHH. Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG /ESIATUTO 2.5 Sicredi We are a cooperative system that values ​​people and promotes local development in a sustainable way. To be recognized as a cooperative financial institution with excellence in relationships and solutions that benefit our members and society. Cooperation, Systemic action, People at the center, Constant evolution, Ethics, Transparency and Local development. Build a More Prosperous Society Together. Satml Smtuto Statute of the Cooperative of Credit, Save and Investment Regishes of Cultures Sicredi of Culture RS/MG CNPJ N0 90 729.359/OO07—22 N/RE N “43400003924 of Denomwação, Headquarters, Ford, Agix, Durac/30 and 30 and WTEGRAC/"X0 A0 SlCRED| l CHAPTER I Section I } Name, Headquarters, Forum, Business Area and Duration Term Art. constituted at the general meeting of May 2nd, ‘I925, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction at Rua Quinze de Novembro. n° 217, 2." floor, Center. CEP 98700—000, in the city of Ijui in this State of Rio Grande do Sul; ll - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast. limited to the municipalities of Ajuricaba, Augusto Pestana, Bozano. Chiapetta, Condor, 2 \7 ~\ Esmtutu 5-mar Coronel Barros, Coronel Bicaco, ljui’, Jéia. Nova Ramada, 3anambi, Santo Augusto and Sao Valério do Sul, all from the State of Rio Grande do Sul; and Alpinepolis. Arceburgo, Bom Jesus da Penha, Cape Verde, Capetinga, Capitélio, Cassia. Claraval, Delfinopolis, Fortaleza de Minas, Guaranésia, Guaxupé, Ibiraci. ltamogi, Itaﬂ de Minas, acui, Juruaia, Monte Belo, Monte Santo de Minas, uzambinho, Nova Resende, Passos, Pratapolis, Sao oao Batista do Gloria, Sao José da Barra, Sao Pedro of the Union. São Sebastiao do Parafso, São Tomas de Aquino, Abre Campo, Alto Caparaé. Alvarenga. Bom Jesus do Galho, Caparaé, Caputira, Caratinga, Chalé, Conceigao de Panema. Cérrego Novo, Durandé, Entre Folhas, Imbé de inas, |nhapim,lpanema,Lajinha.Luisburgo,Manhuagu, anhumirim, Martins Soares, Matipo, Mutum, Pedra Bonita, Piedade de Caratinga. Pocrane, Alto Jequitibé, Reduto, Santa Barbara do Leste, Santa Margarida, Santana do Manhuagu, Santa Rita de Minas, Sao Domingos das Dores, Sao Joao do Manhuagu, Sao Jose do Mantimento, Sao Sebastiao do Anta, Simonésia, Taparuba, Ubaporanga and Vargem Alegre, all in the State of Minas Gerais; III — indefinite duration. Segﬁo H Integration with Sicredi l|rt.Z°A Society, by joining the Cooperativa Centralde Crédito, Savings and Investment of the South and Southeast — Central Sicredi Sul/Sudeste, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates with this and the others affiliates, Sicredi — Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its normative. Esmluta Sacral §1° The Cooperative Credit System — Sicredi or System is the set of singular Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederacao Sicredi), Sicredi Participacoes S/A ( SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundacao Sicredi) and Sicredi Guarantee Funds (SFG). §2° The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast. on its own initiative or that of the Center itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. §3° Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I - the majority of its members, to become independent; II - at least the majority of voting members it represents. 1/3 (one third) of the members. to join the other Central Credit Union. §lt° In the hypotheses provided for in paragraphs 2° and 3° above, the participation and manifestation of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5 "The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System' as well as the use of the Sicredi' brand are conditioned on compliance. in particular: I — systemic norms on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Grow and Belong programs, in accordance with its own regulations; II - - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and Smluta 5-Mar compliance with the standards internally deﬁned by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 "Non-compliance with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subject to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7 '' The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi' System in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8° Affiliation to the Central automatically matters in solidarity with the Cooperative, in terms of the Brazilian Civil Code. limited to its assets, in relation to: I — the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred through transactions in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - to loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or the group of other affiliates. §9“A Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 8 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other cooperatives E fwl Esmtutu 5-mar central members of Sicredi . §10. The liability provided for in the previous paragraph may only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries are associated. of resources and that of the respective Central. §11. The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities. and maintain the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports that during the verification. §12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8° and 9° of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations. comprise a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. The Sicredi South/Southeast Central As coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation. notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. §1lL. The expression "legislation" includes laws. regulatory and complementary decrees and legal norms. Esmtutu 5-mar OF THE SOCIAL OBJECT / CHAPTER II Art. 3'The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to practice the operations of credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with legislation and current regulations; II - provide benefits to its associates. including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or passed on by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other product and service financial and non-financial, not prohibited by current legislation; III develop and implement educational programs. research, teaching and institutional development, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. §1° In all aspects of its activities, the principles of neutrality—of political and religious indiscrimination, racial and social. § 2 The cooperative may, at its discretion, make available to non-members all financial and non-financial products and services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, including payment services in the modalities of acquirer and transaction initiator. ~\ Esmluta Sacral payment dog. Art.ll'A Cooperative can. Furthermore, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as making use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Clinical Paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or ancillary purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, observing internal regulations and current legislation. CHAPTER IN MEMBERS' COMPOSITION, ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS/30, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF DISPOSAL Section I Composition and Admission Conditions Art. 5' People who agree can be members of the Cooperative with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I - natural persons residing or carrying out activity in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; II - people legal entities established in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative, including its administrators and members; III — depersonalized entities established in the area of ​​E€~\ Esmluto Sacral action of the Cooperative; IV - natural persons who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activities: V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members , regardless of where they are established; VI — parents, spouse or partner, survivor, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member. regardless of where they reside or carry out their activity; VII — individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities residing or established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, excluded, for this hypothesis. municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to another Central. § 1° 0 thousand members. unless service is technically impossible. is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2° To acquire the status of associate. the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of minimum shares provided for in §2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3° They will not be admitted to the Cooperative's membership and will not be able to remain there. in addition to the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2 of art. 11 of these Bylaws: I — anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or that conflict with them; III — anyone who has lost employment with the Cooperative for ill cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; III - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 'I80 (one hundred and eighty) days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through pCIbliC0 or private document, or omit registration information and/or other information that could change the membership conditions; IX - anyone who moves values ​​arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, under the terms of current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. §l&° For the purposes of the provisions of items IV 9 V of art. 5th, Contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered to be bonds. Segment II Rights Art. 6' S510 rights of associates: Esmtutu Satml I - participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation. in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System. whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System: IV - propose statutory and internal regulatory changes to the Board of Directors. well COITIO the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi‘, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request from 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Company to be discussed. of and resolved on at the general meeting; III - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII — have access to examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Esmtutu Satml Segiio lﬂ Duties Art. 7' The duties of members are: I - comply with the Legal provisions of this Statute, and other internal regulations of the System; ll - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling obligations and other commitments assumed with or through the cooperative; Ill - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not to practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - rnanter, within the cooperative and at events organized by it. political neutrality and always bearing in mind that cooperation is in the common interest. about- focusing on individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Line paragraph. Admission. the elimination or exclusion of the member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8’ Us associates. Without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2° and 3° of this article, they are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative before third parties. up to 0 Limits: the value of the full shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, in accordance with the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal. elimination or exclusion' until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. §1° The responsibility of members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required. except in the cases set out in §§ 2° 9 3° below. § 2 Members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the shares—parties subscribed, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising the use of power lines liquidity. §3° In an unlimited manner, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Segment V Forms of Termination — Subsegﬁion I: Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. — Subsegﬁe II: Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason 1 \9w\ Esmluta 5-mar must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when not applicable to its exclusion: ll — if the member fails to punctually fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy and nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV — practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member or director. § 1° They may also be eliminated at discretion of the Board of Directors. members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act with dishonesty, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative. § 2° The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within a period of '15 (fifteen) days he/she presents to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in his/her opinion, disqualify the infraction or the act that was the basis for the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or in the first At the meeting that follows, it will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership. in the form of this Subsection. § 3° The Cooperative will communicate the deletion to the member with an indication of the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. §ll" The eliminated member may file an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notice of elimination, subject to 0 art. 47 of this Statute, with suspensive effect the first general meeting that is held. §5° When any director or director falls foul of the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, will appear in a specific report. will notify the investigated/offender, being able to suspend or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from his duties for the duration of the investigation, informing him of the checks made. so that within a period of ‘I5 (fifteen) days it presents its reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. §G In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors. gao to deliberate on the elimination or general meeting to deliberate on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7° The decision to eliminate the member, except for the hypotheses in §§ 5° and 6° of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. — Subsegment III: Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs due to: I - dissolution of the legal entity; ll - death of the individual; Ill - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th. §3° of this Statute. Esmtutu 5-Mar § 1° The change in the admission conditions after the association will not be considered C0|‘|'1O loss of statutory requirement for entry or permanence in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. / CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed. prevailing, as a minimum. the value of R$2,500,000.00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais). must be paid in current currency. §1" The share capital is divided into shares worth R$1.00 (a Real). § 2" Upon joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in payments, at a minimum. 20 (twenty) shares. § 3 "The request for re-entry of the dismissed associate. Eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may delegate to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. § IPA general assembly, upon proposal of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of the credit limit of each L f~\ Associated Sacral Charter may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, associates subscribe and pay in new shares—parts of capital, even defining the form. the value and frequency of subscriptions and full payments. §5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, subscription and monthly payments will be permitted. at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. §6° The share is indivisible and non-transferable to halo associates, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register. noting that no member may hold more than 'I/3 (one third) of the total shares. §'1° The quotas—parts of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, being prohibited from giving them as a guarantee for other associates or third parties. § 8° The shares of the capital are unseizable. §9° In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter VIII of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after approval by the general assembly of the balance sheet for the financial year in which it occurred. the dismissal, allowing payment in installments by the Cooperative, to begin within the same period, within 5 (five) years' at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. §11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date from the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, they will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. §12. The Share Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10 of this article takes place. provided that: I— the partial result of the year in which the dismissal is given presents surpluses; II — do not exist losses to be offset against future surpluses; and III - the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative are considered. respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 70 (seventy) years and. cumulatively, be part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 15 (fifteen) years or retire due to disability. may exceptionally submit a request to the Board of Directors withdrawal of part of its share capital' while maintaining its membership status, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. §1lI. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit to the Board of Directors a request for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with a minimum of 1 fwl Esmtutu Sacral of shares—parts established in § 2 of this article. § 15. The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital at the initiative of associates, including for the purpose of dealing with unforeseeable cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum shareholdings established in § 2 of this article. §16. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit resulting from the value of their share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; you assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. §17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member who left the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he/she left the membership. In the event of a remaining outstanding balance resulting from some obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it by means admitted in the national legal system. §18. The return referred to in §§ 13, 14 and 15, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be made at the discretion of this body, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with installments of payment also being permitted. by the Cooperative. § 19. The shares—parts of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate bond with the Cooperative continues. §20. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by that member may be compensated. at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective shares—parts, surpluses or annual remuneration on capital shares, maintaining their membership status with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. § 21. Any balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not sought by dismissed associates. eliminated or excluded will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. CHAPTER V OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY' GENERAL SPOSlQfJES, ORDINARY CERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERAL ASSEMBLY EXTRAORDW/'\RlA Segﬁe I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme authority of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions in the interest of the Society. and deliberations bind everyone, even if they are absent or disagree. §1° At the discretion of the Board of Directors, and considering the relevance of the matters, the matters covered by the 1 f~\ Esmtutu 5-Mar agenda of the general assemblies may or may not be previously appreciated by the respective groups in which the associates are grouped. § 2 '' When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates. the cooperative will subsequently inform its members. § 3° The coordination of the core assemblies will be the President of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, or the Vice-President, or, if they are unable to do so, whoever the latter indicates. Art. ‘"4. General assemblies will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least '10 (ten) days in advance, by means of a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's electronic website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or, following a request not responded to within 5 (five) days, by 'I/S (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights ' hypothesis in which at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the notice of invitation. § 2° The notice will contain, in compliance with current legislation: I— the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II — the day and time of the meeting. just as the form CO|'T1O will be realized; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate speciﬁcations; IV- the method of access to the means of communication made available for participation by members, in case g L\ Esmtutu Satml for holding a meeting remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - procedures for accessing the voting system. as well as the period for receiving votes, in the event of a remote meeting. or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its dispatch. for the purpose of installation quorum; VII — place, date. name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. §3 General meetings may be held on second call, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of one (1) hour between each call. as long as it is expressly stated in the notice. §lI° Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I- 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, on first call; II — half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call. Paragraph (mice. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. In general assemblies, the members, grouped by nuclei, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and regulations own, being able to attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1° The delegates will deliberate on all matters of the order of the day. 1 9 \ Esmluta 5-Mar § 2° The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, with the possibility of being re-elected. When new delegates are elected, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. §3° During the term of office, the delegate cannot exercise simultaneously. elective or paid position in the Cooperative. If you are elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative. must simultaneously renounce the delegate post. §lI° Whenever the matters are considered by the members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 'I6, the distribution of vacancies of delegates between the groups will be carried out based on the specific regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members in up to 101 (one hundred and one) groups, observing the specific regulations: II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. §1° One effective delegate and at least one alternate delegate will be elected. the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in Esmluta 5-Mar regulations. §2° The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as determined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3° In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. §lL° In the event of a tie vote, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 15. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. ﬂine paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates — effective and substitutes — will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. ‘I8 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general assemblies will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. §1° In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite an administration advisor to act as secretary. § 2° When the general assembly has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, Administration, the work will be chaired and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main stakeholders in the call making up the Board. g L\ Esmtutu Satml Art. 21. The delegate may not represent the Nucleus in decisions. in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to it. hypothesis in which the Nucleus will be represented by its deputy or another appointed associate, as applicable. Art. 22. Deliberations in assemblies General elections, held in open voting unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority. except for matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for whose validity the votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates present are required. Single paragraph. The deliberations and other substantial events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the meeting and the secretary of work, as well as by a commission of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as wish to do so. Art.23. . The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date. the time and place of continuation of the session, respecting the legal quorum, thus at the opening C0|'T1O in the (5) restart(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice', all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not make it possible to comply with the legal deadline required for that publication. Esmtutu 5-Mar Segﬁo ll Ordinary General Assembly Art. 214. The ordinary general assembly must be held once a year, within the legal deadline, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - rendering of accounts from the heights of administration, accompanied by the independent audit report, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from the insufficiency of contributions to cover the Society's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of the members of the board of directors; IV - fixation, for the time of the election and whenever foreseen — changes to the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses of the members of the Council; V- approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6”, inc. Item IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. 1 f~\ Esmtutu Sacral Segiio lﬂ Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Line paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company’s purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. / CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with c) provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly. being led by a Commission Electoral body constituted speciﬁcally for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Cooperative's Administration Council, its autonomy and independence are ensured. Reporting operationally to the same board. Esmtutu 5-Mar / CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Segﬁion I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 12 (twelve) advisors, among them, a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the board of directors or the Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor have kinship up to the 2nd (second) degree, straight or collaterally, with members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered COITIO to compete with any of the entities that form part of Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - not have held or be holding a political-party position or function, in the (last civil exercise; V - gather the professional qualification required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the g f~\ Esmtutu 5-mar complexity of the inherent activities; \II - failure to take advantage of 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations with the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity in the last 2 (two) financial years; VII — have an unblemished reputation; \II|I - be a resident of the country; |X— not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance — gao. of active or passive corruption, of concussion. of embezzlement, against the popular economy. public faith, property or the National Financial System, or sentenced to a penalty that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions: more in institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil or in social security entities complementary, insurance companies‘ capitalization companies. publicly-held companies or entities subject to supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission; XI - not be declared bankrupt or insolvent; XII - not have. by intent or fault, committed an irregularity that caused any damage or damage to the image of Sicredi in any of the entities that are part of Sicredi XIII - have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last 2 (two) fiscal years (be active member) and have regularly participated in branch assemblies. XIV — have participated, in the immediately previous exercise, or participated in courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during their term of office, up to 1 (one) year after taking office: XV — have time availability for the full fulfillment of statutory and legal responsibilities, being prohibited the accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with the responsibility in the Cooperative; XVI - be performing, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XVII - have certification from the Crescer Program; XVIII - preferably have training in higher level course; XIX — meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XX - do not expose negatively, or attack against. directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees. due to the position. by any means, verbal or written, or any trademarks owned by the entities that make up Sicredi; XX|- not have suffered bleeding due to irrigation of a very serious nature, in accordance with the Rules Sicredi internal. XXII - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which they are a member, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 'I2 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency. duration of more than 2 (two) months; Esmluta Satml §1° For the purposes of item VII, the reputation unblemished will be assessed considering the existence of: criminal proceedings or police investigation; judicial or administrative process that is related to the National Financial System or the Brazilian Payment System; proceedings relating to insolvency, liquidation, intervention, bankruptcy or judicial recovery; non-compliance with obligations; and other similar situations, occurrences or circumstances. In the analysis of these situations and occurrences, the relevance, severity, recurrence and the circumstances of each case. § 2'' Former employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions. nor directors and officers who are subject to internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during their term of office or who, for the same reasons, have been dismissed or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3 "The mandate will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 'I/3 (one third) of the members, Note that, if the calculation results in a fractional number. The immediately superior whole number must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until the inauguration of their successors, allowing them, from the election, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. §lI° The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. §5° In absences, absences. suspensions or impediments temporary periods of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by a councilor appointed by the Board itself. Once the absences of the President and the Vice-President were verified at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its components. § 6 '' In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the counselors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first assembly that follows must elect a new (5) occupant (5) for said (5) position (5), confirming or nine 0 (5) designated (5), with the (5 ) elected (5) will serve (an) the remaining time of the (5) mandate (5) of the President and/or Vice-President succeeded (5). Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President. new components must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the missing time of the management. § 7° The following constitute, among others, hypotheses of vacancy of the elected position: I - loss of membership II - non-attendance. without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 3 (three) alternate meetings, during each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV — leaves, absences. suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - the sponsor, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; Esmtutu Satml VI - the holder becomes ineligible under the regulations in force, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elective position under the terms of this Statute. §8° In the hypothesis that the advisor to be nominated As a candidate for a political-party position, he/she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed. under penalty of vacancy. §9° For the purposes of this Statute. political position—party is understood as: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councilman, Mayor, State Deputy and Federal. Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of a party executive — people who, affiliated with a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the functions of President. Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the Party's own regulations; III — Appointed post. designated or delegated — those political agents invested in their positions by appointment. designation or delegation (State Ministers, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I — is reﬁned, monthly in an ordinary manner. and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President or the majority of the Board itself. 1 fwl Esmtutu 5-Mar II - deliberates. validly. by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its members present components‘ reserved for the President 0 tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. §1° The call for meetings of the Board of Directors will be given, preferably, in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2° No advisor may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest, or that concern your relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, direct or collateral, spouse, partner or employees. §3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in-person, remotely, or in-person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; II — monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in light of the objectives and goals deﬁned for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board tive Social Charter, as well as establishing their duties and powers and the individual remuneration of the Directors, in compliance with the provisions contained in the statute; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI — authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended for financing the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII — decide on the payment of annual remuneration on capital shares, stipulating remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current: including those sent to them by the Executive Board and determine the application of applicable penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XI- previously authorize capital participation in other companies or entities, including non-cooperative nature, attended to the complex or accessories, in the interest of the social and community of the cooperative and respecting the current legislation and deliberations and systemic guidelines to respect; XIV - authorize the change of the address of the headquarters, within E L\ Esmluta Social of the same municipality, as well as to decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of the other dependencies or branches of the Cooperative, within or outside the municipality headquarters, in accordance with current legislation; XV — comply with and enforce this Statute, the legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XVI - express an opinion on the administration report and accountability of the exercise; XVII — choose and dismiss external auditors, observing systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing share capital by the membership: XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offer or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or the increase in share capital by the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws 9 in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Line paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature. Defines for each of them, recorded in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details: ment provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I — monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the 1 €~\ Esmtutu Satml Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of membership organization programs. development and management of Sicredi, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; — monitor the execution of planning plans work relating, speciﬁcally, to the development of the Cooperative; IV — submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, observing the systemic guidelines: VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the independent audit report. in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special powers of the Board of Directors; VIII — institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events As an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors. convening and coordinating its g L\ Esmtutu Social meetings; XI- systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the dependences of the cooperative ‘to ensure the satisfaction and quality of the services provided to the members; XII — apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Sole paragraph — The headquarters of the Cooperative will be the place where the President operates to carry out his functions. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in case of leave, absence, suspension or impediment, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in which the Cooperative participates. Segﬁo II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, one being an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and at most 4 (four) Directors, one being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and up to 2 (two) Business Directors. §1° The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the Directors' term of office or vacancy, and 2 Ll Esmtutu Satml will exercise the functions provided for in these Bylaws. §2° In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors. the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. §3° The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. §lI° The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or out of court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with speciﬁc powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. §6° Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 'I (one) Director or 'I (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before state and municipal federal public bodies, autarchies and companies economy mixed; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of internal leave of 'I20 (one hundred and twenty) days that implies the lack of plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Esmtutu Satmi Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to XII and XIX to XXII, as well as § 2nd; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8° and 9° of art. 27; III - have a higher education degree; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing each one. in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V — meet complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board is responsible, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - operationally manage the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II — contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, observing the provisions of this Statute: III — appoint attorneys, establishing them, in skillful mandate instrument, attributions. responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Us power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a fixed period. except those that contemplate the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted 1 LI Esmtutu Satml for an indefinite period of validity: IV - sign all documents. including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition - gao' alienation, donation or encumbrance, depending on the case, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, observing the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets classified as circulating to the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic planning and financial management, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution: VII - implement the internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial status of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution monthly, reporting on the economic-financial state of the company Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and guide audit techniques and internal controls, aiming at the safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable goods. contribution or aid, regardless of beneficiary and value, according to 3 L\ Esmluta Satml with the guidelines set by the Board of Directors - €50; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities related to the ordinary administration of the Cooperative; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable property for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties. among others. observing § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi’s cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative’s area of ​​activity: C) respond to expansion plans and activities of the Cooperative, according to market potential, always striving for sustainable and sound development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) be responsible for managing the Cooperative’s performance and monitoring its results. striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units' according to 2 f~\ Esmluta 5-Mar economic and financial planning of the Cooperative; f) respond formally. for the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budgetary proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - To the Director of Operations: a) respond to management analyzes of financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as CO|'T1O, forward the measures in the supervision process and ensure respect for internal standards and legislation: C) respond' formally, for the responsibilities indicated before the bodies regulators and inspectors. III - Action Business Director: a) prepare and be responsible for the implementation of theoretical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those deﬁned by the Board of Directors; b) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the agreed goals — set out in the Cooperative's annual planning; C) respond and monitor the execution of the budget & L\ Sacral Esmtutu of rural credit. as well as its requirements; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. §1" any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative. The granting of guarantees, sureties and other guarantees, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. §2° The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely. by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within his competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision of the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. §3" The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In the event of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors. in accordance with art. 27, § 7" , items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will indicate the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, is applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors may no longer be fulfilled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by another 3 f~\ Esmtutu Sacml Directors. Single paragraph. In case of vacancy of all positions on the Executive Board. The Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Officers. with yours personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully complied with. §1° The Directors who cause an insufficiency of liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, through reckless management or serious omission of duties, determine loss to the Company, will be liable. directly, with its own assets for compensation for damages. §2" The Cooperative, through its social bodies, in jointly or individually, as already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board of Directors and Directors whose actions or omissions. in the form of the previous paragraph, have as a consequence any of the results referred to therein.' CHAPTER VIII SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALAI\Ig0, RESULTS AND SOCWS FUNDS Art. 38. The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one) year, ending on 31 December. Sacral Smluta Art. 39. Two swings will be raised during the exercise, one on the Last day of June and the other on the Last day of December. Art. 40. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 70% (seventy per corner), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and meet development of the Cooperative; ll - 5% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social (FATES), aimed at providing assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in its area of ​​action; Ill - 1% (one percent), at least, for the Cooperation and Innovation Fund, intended to encourage the leading role of associates and entities in carrying out actions that promote the local and sustainable development of society, as well as promoting the values ​​and principles of cooperativism with communities, in accordance with rules speciﬁc requirements established by the Board of Directors; IV - 5% (five percent). at the very least. to the Expansion Fund, intended to support operational expenses for opening. renovation/maintenance of service points. in accordance with specific rules established by the Board of Directors; \I - the remaining balance will be at the disposal of the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1" of this article. §1" Whenever the Cooperative does not achieve the required/stipulated patrimonial structure, by the monetary authority and by Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to achieve its objectives. The available surpluses, in compliance with the distribution system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new quotas—parts of the associates' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2" May be allocated to the reserve fund before determining mandatory allocations, donations without a specific destination; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 41. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. is provided, upon decision of the general meeting, compensate, through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of the losses recorded in the previous year. Art. 142. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. / CHAPTER IX OF Dissolugixo E LiQuiDAg/10 Art. 113. In addition to other hypotheses provided for by law, the Cooperative dissolves itself as of right: I - when the general assembly so decides, from g fwl Esmtutu Satml that at least 20 (twenty) associates are not willing to ensure its continuity; ll - by changing its legal form; Ill - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital If, until the subsequent general meeting, which can be held within a period of not less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; \I - due to the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 144. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. / OMBUDSMAN CHAPTER — SHARED OFFICER Art. 155. The Cooperative will maintain an agreement to carry out ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with current legislation. / CHAPTER XI TRANSPORTATION AND FWNAL PROVISIONS Art. I06. The 5 deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 157. The Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, forwarded by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to be received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Esmtutu 5-mar Art. 48. The cooperative has extraordinary legitimacy—competing autonomous ria to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members who are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposition of the judicial measure. Art. 45. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with the legislation and cooperative principles, heard. when hypothesized, the social bodies. Art. 50. The current members of the Fiscal Council will have their mandates preserved until the Ordinary General Assembly of 2025, applying the amended provisions in this body regarding the extinction of the Fiscal Council, as of the Ordinary General Assembly to be held in 2025. D0 CONSTANT IN THE RESPECTIVE BOOK OF MINUTES OF LOOSE LEAVES OF CULTURAL ASSEMBLYS OF THE COOPERATIVE OF CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT REGlDES DAS CULTURAS— SICREDI DAS CULTURAS RS/MG. aw» L\_J Elma Pedro Von Miihlen Paulo Rogérin Sapiezinski Presidents Vic2—President Esmmm Sadat Secretary of Cultures RS/MG Regional Library Rio Grande do Sul .m,8.0 mumclplos DE2 states @ nWa,a »'«ugu<LaPe<|ana !a'wa Nuvi Ramada Water Mountain St. Augusta Sao\/aAéru7dnSul Am (mm Mp\HfIpQ|\< mm. gm mm Capamo mm lequmba mm augq Bum Jesus as Penna Bum Jesus do new cm Green Uarax/at Kanzewfindfinema (u'rVegr7Nu*/D 7)sAhn6filuh~ Duram é [nlrsFu|h4~ :.mnmapnm« Cuavanésm Guaxuoe Hnvazx \mbarJ2V\'hna5 magm- Vnanema Vzamagx HaA2dzMma5 mm Vurua-I mm Amdnurgu Mm.»....w Mzmmmwmv M,,m..< Mumps: Muntefilem Mame Santa as Mmas Mutun Muzambmho Nnvafiasenda Passas Vzdraflornxa Pwedadedefiarakmga Pnzrarve Pralépnh) Rsmnu §arv|aRérh»ur»sll(and mm Savvlanavavgarxda Saul.) Ma 42 Mums Sanmnadn7\aVan>vua; and Sanummvvzosdas Dark; 55.: the Eastern side of the mother Séalaéada Marvhuaw Sac ruse’ of Bans Sac lass' do Manlwmervm St. P-Hm Gd Hman (an <e»,.,.m., (In Arm §a«)§e}ya\|\4x1<lx) Pavaku Mr. Thomas deAqmm: Swvvunésm Saaras Tananmn Ubapavauga Varzam mam 72.5 Secretary gg; swcredw cam br/cuuurasrsmg Q 513353 4770 for smm day Cultures RS/MD a@5\(redIdas:uLtura5rSmg [3 |.