Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG Rua Quinze de Novembro, nº 217, 2nd floor – Center 98700 -000 – Ijuí/RS sicredi.com.br Agribusiness Development Program Regulation 01/202 2 Communication and Marketing Management Version 1 Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG Rua Quinze de Novembro, nº 217, 2nd floor – Center 98700 -000 – Ijuí/RS sicredi.com.br Regulation of the Agribusiness Development Program Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG Agribusiness Development Program aims to contribute to the qualification, increased income and improved quality of life of members and rural producers, encouraging them to remain and grow in agribusiness. a) Source of resources from the Agribusiness Development Program The resources for the Agribusiness Development Program will come from the cooperative's Cooperation and Innovation Fund. The value will correspond up to 10% of the annual allocation made to the aforementioned Fund, being distributed among the agencies in accordance with the annual strategy defined by the Executive Board of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG. b) How resources are distributed. The actions that will be promoted through the Agribusiness Development Program will be defined annually by the Executive Board. c) Actions included in the Agribusiness Development Program The Program will subsidize actions aimed at development of agribusiness in the area of ​​action of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG, with prior evaluation by the Executive Board, such as: support for the Rural Family House, Project from Field to Table - PISA (Integrated Production of Agricultural Systems), Elisyos – intelligence integrated agriculture and others that can be assessed and approved at any time. d) Deadlines The actions to be promoted through the Agribusiness Development Program may take place at any time. time upon approval by the Executive Board of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG. e) Eligibility requirements To be viable, the actions developed under this Program may include the participation of members and non-members, however each action must include a minimum number of 80% of Cooperative members in the group. Members must have principality with the cooperative and have the basic offer; new members must have the basic offer; and the actions must support the member's main activity or search for new income. Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG Rua Quinze de Novembro, nº 217, 2nd floor – Center 98700 -000 – Ijuí/RS sicredi.com.br f) Disclosure of the Agribusiness Development Program Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG will promote the dissemination of the Agribusiness Development Program in the different media in its area of ​​activity, including nucleus assemblies and meetings with associates. From this Therefore, participants may be invited to participate in these publications through audio, videos and/or images. This Agribusiness Development Program Regulation was approved at the Board of Directors meeting held on 01/20/202 2.