Annual Report q: Sicredi SicredidasCuLturasRS/MG Z021 _ Augmented reality ' _ - Access QRCode, point - your cell phone's camera for a few seconds at the caretaker on the side, I ————————————————— ————————— — —- - and see what we are building! Summary 5oVERNANGA MN 1 ' ' ' ' \ \ \ / \ / \ _ ' I I / I \ 1 v~» 9 PEOPLE _:z,~:;§.,—,— I 1 5 ENGAGED I Ju fos I' 1 CO1 " UN'°ADE §§We have been operating for over 96 years with the aim of expanding ﬁnancial inclusion and the strength of cooperativism [...] ReLator\oZUZW Building together a more prosperous society Hello, this is our 2021 Financial Report, in which you will be able to learn about actions that, throughout the year, culminated in our purpose of building a more prosperous society together. We are Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG, one of the 108 cooperatives that make up the Sicredi System, present in all Brazilian states and the Federal District. We are a cooperative financial institution. That's why we always seek to make a difference in the communities where we operate. We are [ado a [ado with our associates, following a collective path to offer intelligent solutions for financial development, because we know that the best choices are those that bring results for everyone. We have been operating for over 96 years in the northwest of Rio Grande do Sul and are expanding to the southwest of Minas Gerais, with the aim of expanding financial inclusion and the strength of cooperativism, as a means for sustainable development. One development built jointly, as all associates are owners. having a voice over business decisions and participating in the results. And this cooperative difference is added to the more than 300 financial products and services that we offer in a simple and accessible way, which you will see on the next pages. Good reading! 5i;red‘da5(u[tura5Rg/Mo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -- 9 ReLat6rio202‘I Sicred\dasCulturasRS/MG Presentandfuture Message from the President ANTENOR JOSE VIONE President of the Sxcredx das CuLturas RS/MG Bringing together our actions 2 results each , started by a group of very simple but visionary people, who saw in the strength of the collective an alternative to their financial needs. We are committed to continuing with this story, to making it still more recognized and to leave our legacy to future generations. To this end, we have been working hard, both in Rio Grarude do Sui and in Minas Oerais, with the premise of making our cooperative better and better, fully meeting the financial needs of our members. In this almost central trajectory of our cooperative financial institution, which we share here, we reaffirm our commitment to Contributing to the quality of life of communities in which we operate. And we realize that cooperation 52 is increasingly necessary, given the challenges we have faced in recent years. Therefore, I invite you to browse these pages to get closer to cooperative ideals and know how we act in practice to build a more prosperous society. with the adversities we face in these times of pandemic, we work day after day to deliver adequate financial solutions and achieve achievements that add value to our associates and society. In Z021, we reach 96 years of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG, with a scientific history read and always looking to the future. And on this path, we are centennial, I also need to mention how much we reinvent ourselves and connect with the changes that impact us every year, because innovation is also part of our essence. Sicred\dasCulturasRS/MG Through our actions, we can confidently emphasize that we collaborate in the creation of new ventures. company growth. development of rural properties. increased income for families and quality of life for people who believe in Sicredi and chose us as their cooperative financial institution. With this Report, we translate a little of this broad work of Sicredi das Cultures RS/MG and add value to Our history is built on unity and cooperativism. ROQUE ENDERLE Executive Director of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG Present and future Data from December 2021 Our Cooperative Asicredidasculturas RS/MG is a cooperative with an almost Ceriteriéria history, its history began in T925' following the fury of Caixa Rural Uniéo Popuiar de Serra Cadeado, today municipality of Augusto Pestana/RS, when a pioneering group of people decided to join forces for the benefit of development of that community and its inhabitants. 05 years have passed and today Sicredi das Culturas RS/MC: is the result of the creation of four large cooperatives in the Northwest region of the state of Rio Grande do Sui, brought together in addition to Augusto Pestana/RS, cooperatix/as which had their origin in Ajuricaba/RS' Panambi/RS and Santo Augusto/RS. Sicredi das Cuituras RS/MG is a cooperative that is expanding Its area of ​​activity Based on its solid history and connected 3 evoiu— gen of its time, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MC: is a cooperative that is expanding its area of ​​activity— géo to the southwest of Minas Gerais Currently' iristi— tuigéo ﬁnancial cooperative— Va is made up of more than 62 thousand associates and its area of ​​activity covers 41 municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais, a state where two new agencies were opened in 2021, totaling 5 agencies in the state of Minas Gerais. ...... =|ﬁI: s“_L\M Iatixlai-Guvla More agencies in municipalities of Rio Orande do Sui and Minas Gerais thousand associates ReLat6r\oZUZW Our employees: Q 0 More than Kg} in credit granted Result of more than 0 More than in managed atwos Total deposits of more than Actuagéo Regionam Ajuricaba Atpinopolis Pratépolis Augusto Pestana Arceburgo Séo Joéo Batxsta do Glorxa Bozano Bom Jesus da Penha Deﬁnopolis Chiapetta Cape Verde Fortateza de Minas Condor Capetinga Guaranésia Coronel Barros Capitotio Guaxupé Coronet Bxcaco Cassia Ibiracx Hun' Claraval Itamogi Jéia Juruaia Itao de Mmas Nova Ramada Monte Beto Jacui Panambi Monte Santo de Mxnas San José da Barra Santo Augusto Muzambinno Séo Pedro da Uniéo S50 Valério do Sui Nova Resende Séo Sebastiao do Parafso K / \Pa5sos S§oTornéS deAquino / 5.;red'da5(uLtura5R5/Mg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -- 9 Data from December 2021 The Sicredi System We are the first financial cooperative in Brazil and we operate with a business model that con5— tro'i a value chain that benefits the resident, the C00- perative and the Lo— Cal community. We have more than 55 million members 2 — we are present in all regions of Brazil with more than 22 thousand branches, distributed among TOO cooperatives. Our cooperatives are organized in a national system, forming a support network to reduce risks and strengthen our local operations. We have specialized companies and financial instruments that offer security. credibility and reliability to associates across the country. Each of our Cooperatives has administrative and ﬁnancial autonomy to act locally, generating value for our communities. Our management model — so valorizes the performance of associates As business owners, encouraging participation in the sales and sharing the results' We have more than 30 thousand collaborators in the Sicredi System and for the 9th year with — SECLIUVO, we are among the NleBest Companies for You Working According to Vocé S//-\ magazine, for the seventh consecutive year we appeared in the Melhores Et Maiores ranking of Exame magazine and in 2020 we were Zr' '\nstitu\'— (60th with the highest rurat credit Uberacéo. www.s|credi.com.br I\/Hssao, Vision and Values ​​Our mission As a cooperative system, value rmation, offer financial solutions to add income and Contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. vision To be recognized by society as cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Our values ​​~ Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business. - Respect the individuality of the member - Valuing and developing people. - Preservation of the Institution as a sisterna‘ - I respect official and internal standards. - Efficiency and transparency in management 5.5 million members More than 30 thousand employees + 2.2 thousand branches in 26 states and the Federal District ﬁnancial assets in Net assets R$197.6 billion in assets R$133 billion in credit portfolio Result of REE 4.8 billion R$1Z9.5 billion in total deposits ................ ......... R$ 25.2 billion Prizes and recognition Recognition of BND55 Focus - Annual Ranking of Central Bank Projections For the second year in a row, Sicredi is the institution that had the greatest presence in the lists of the five institutions that came closest to achieving the indicators, with Iflnica appearing in five ranking categories. Sicredi appears in fourth place in the Annual Short Term category for the indicators Exchange Rate (score 9.6), TPCA (score 9.2) 2 |GP—M (score 8.9). At the Selic Rate, Sicredi occupies fifth position in the categories Short Term Annual (score 9.5) 2 Medium Term Annual (score 8.9). Sicredi was recognized in two categories — achieving first placement in both: BNDES Pequenas Empresas — Development Banks/Cooperatives and Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE) — Development Banks/Cooperatives. VEHICLE. BNDE5 VEHICLE:BANK C(_-INTRAL PREM DATE|ACTION:JANE|R0/2021 PREM DATE|ACA0= JANE|R0/2021 Prisma Fiscal - Ministry of Finance Forbes 1st place in the projection of Total Government Expenditure in the long term zo 2 Primary Result of the Central Government in the short term. 2nd VEHICLE; FORBES _ placed in Nominal Result of the Central Government (lorigo for DATE OF PREMISSION|ACTION:APR|L/Z021 zo), and third in Gross Debt of the General Government in the long term. 75th position of the country in the World's Best Banks 2021 ranking VEHICLE: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AWARD DATE: JANUARY/2021 World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup) Agtech Garage Award A The cooperative financial institution had five winners among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects registered from 13 different countries. Sicredi was the winner of the AgTech Garage Awards. award given by one of the largest innovation hubs in Latin America for agribusiness, AgTech Garage, vehicle: woccu AWARD DATE: JULY/2021 VEHICLE: AGTECH GARAGE AWARD DATE: AUGUST/2021 GPTW Certiﬁcation In August 20210 Sicredi became a company certified by GPTW. being able to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking that lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. Sicredi obtained an approval rate of 88%. CERTIFIATION DATE: AUGUST/2021 Investment Fund Value Guide Sicredi has remained in the top 20% since 2019 as assessed by Valor Econímico's Investment Fund Value Guide. In the Active Fixed Income category, we stand out with our institutional Sicredi Fi REF Fund |RF—M of our own resource Cnestor, Sicredi Asset, which has more than 56Bi under management and a strong seal from Fitch Ratings. VEHICLE: ECONOMIC VALUE AWARD DATE: AUGUST/Z021 9 ReLatDr\oZUZW 2 Top 100 Open Startups In 2021 we are the third time in this ranking which references E15100 companies most open to Innovation in Brazilr 0100 Open Startups is a platform sponsored by global companies that together they evaluate and classify Tech Startups) 0 murldo. VEHICLE: PLATFORM1OO OPEN STARTUPS AWARD DATE: AUGUST/2021 Broadcast Projegoes Finangas Mais Ga Award Place in the Top General and in 070 in the Top Bésiml 6th place in the “Banks — Financing” category. AWARDS: SEPTEMBER/2021 Best and biggest Val°r10°0 9th place in the classification of the 10th Largest Banks of the year Among the highlights, Sicredi occupied 4th place among VEHICLE: REVISTA EXAME the 20 most profitable on Assets and D 7“ Operagfzes of AWARD DATE: OCTOBER/2021 Credit‘ Total Depends. 15th place among the 5 Largest Banks that are part of the guide. VEHICLE: VALOR ECONDMICO AWARD DATE: OCTOBER/2021 Epoca 360 8th place in the sectoral ranking of Banks, with 2nd place in Corporate Governance within the sector, Sicredi also came in 6th place in Fessoas , 8th in movagéor 10“ in Sustainability. 11th in Vision of the future and 15th in 1st lUE3|' '13 Cat9E0|'ia MONEY Market For A5595 Financial Performance' among QutrQ5_ Experts in the 2021 edition of the FGV Funds Guide, organized by the Center for Studies in Finance of the Fundagéo VEFCULO: REVISTA EPOCA Neoocnos Get-l:|lioVargas_ AWARD DATE: OCTOBER/2021 ' VEHICLE: FGV GUIDE AWARD DATE: DECEMBER/2021 V Banking Transformation Award 2021 - Banking Report _ __ Premnagao Abrasca The award is held to encourage and promote initiatives by financial institutions, contributing to 0 improvements— 0 Report 5'9 5UStE“t3bi“d3d5 of Siﬁfedi 5'9 2020 f0i to the sector had as the winning case the 'implementation of Whatsapp PF€miad0 "0 23rd Prize 5'3 /'\550Cia9§0 BV35il9iF3 5'35 Enterprise + Theo', from Sicredi which involves the use of air intelligence — COWPBYWBS Open (Abfasﬁal C0m 2” place V13 C3f€S0|'i3 tiﬁcial to give more agility and efﬁciency to landing. by 'EmPr9535 F€Chada5 '~ mm d° messaging app i"5tama”eaS' VEiCULO:ASSOC\ACAO BRASILEIRA DAS VEICULO: BRAZILIAN CANTARINO C°MPANH'A5ABE'3TA5 (ABRASCA) AWARD DATE: DECEMBER/2021 PREM DATE | which also places us in 9th place among the 20 largest in Net Profit and also among the 20 best in Net Equity; and 123rd position in Equity Profitability. VEHICLE: ECONOMIC VALUE AWARD DATE: DECEMBER/2021 5icredrda5[u[tura;R§/Mg ---------------------------- 9 Presentandfuture Support structure E1 Cooperative At Sicrecli, members can count on the solidity and security of a system which has been growing and evolving for over 119 years. Nucteo coordinators —~UUﬁd0‘:~ Te/Nordeste Cooperatives I I I O They are the representatives chosen by the members. It has the role of taking matters of interest and the decisions of mL'IcLeo to the general assemblies of the cooperative‘ S50 05 business owners and has the right to vote with equal weight in the cooperative's decisions, regardless of the volume of resources invested. The affiliated cooperatives are linked together with the cooperatives, which are the controllers of the S\crediPar group. They fund credit cooperatives and supervise the affiliated individual cooperatives, supporting them. but Principalelo activities with associates. They are the privileged decision-making bodies and gxpansao of the System. Has as The objectives are to stimulate the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services typical of a conventional financial institution through its agencies. 9 Retatoriolﬂ And Hotding oue controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the strategic decisions of the System It aims to provide direct participation of credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to the governance structure The Board of Directors Administration reﬁnes itself monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic issues. CAS - Centro Administrative Sicredi C is the headquarters of Sicredipari of the Cooperative Bank and its companies controlled by the Sicredi Fundos Garantidores Foundation (SFG) and the Confederation. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of members. Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration I 1 n I i : ' I I I - .' 1 'I Conselho Fiscat - - - - - Confederagéo Sicredi n 1 'Rabo Partnerships Bang] I , I Coopemwo Subsidiary companies Sicredi SicrediFar Sicredi Cartﬁes Conseiio de Fundacéo Administradora de Consércios Sicredi Administragao Executive Director of CA5 Sicredi Fundos Corretora Ciarantidores de Seguros Sicredi Administradora de Sicredi Goods. Fundagfia Sicredi _ . . I Confederation Srcredr - - - - - - . » . . I,. [\ . . . . And the shared services center, I Keeps the essence of cooperativism alive, through _E':fTFE 55 9mSP_"95:5 9 35 9”tidad95 We 1 , cooperative educational and cultural initiatives and sustenance— ||'iE|' aiTiD|CI'Eii , . \ ,. . . . g f I tavels adhering to the strategy, contributing to quality to the financial market, development and provides financial products and SEFViCDS C respon - Sicredi Fundas Garantidnres (SFG) has a centralized risk management structure for the System Its main objective is to provide deposit guarantees and large-scale administration of resources. Its partners are F13 FOWTE» C0VidiG595 5 “WW5 PV9Vi5t05 In strategic VESULBWEMOS, Rabo Partnerships B.Vi — development branch P”5|3Fi05v 305 3550051105 5535 COOPQYBUVBS SUBS FESEVVBS of the hotandés group Rabobank. Among the initiatives is the Technical Assistance Program, which aims to exchange skills, extra0rdmé':-'as daS_C°0pQrat'VaS 30 mndo' knowledge and better practices between the two institutions and the international and recovery of at“/OS Finance Corporation (IFC) since 2011, due to the viability of three operations: equity, subordinated debt and access to the Globai Trade Finance Program. Through GlobaLTrade Finance Program‘ has access to diversified financing sources from more than 230 international and regional banks to support the exchange operations of small and medium-sized companies associated with the cooperatives. SiCredida5Cui[ura3RS/Mﬁ ---------------------------- ReLat6rio20Z1 Governanga 0 mod z,r'E':.x:E'm jHr"\tD:: 5icred\dasCuLturasRS/MU Governance Distribution of results One of the main differentiators of a cooperative financial institution is management with— shared, as the associates are also owners of the businesses. therefore, they receive participation in the results. On May 21, 2021, the date on which it celebrated 96 years of history, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG credited more than R$7.23 million to its members' p0u—panga account. The value refers to the participation of members in the results that the cooperative had in 2020. In other words, after the results are calculated and the legal and statutes. the Cooperative shared the net result of exercise Z020 with its members. In addition to the amount of R$723 million, the cooperative financial institution credited R$1.28 million in interest paid to the share capital in December 2020. In this way, the total amount is delivered to Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG members. referring to the 2020 financial year. was R$ 8.51 million. The remainder of the amount was allocated to the Technical Assistance Fund, 'Q [...] the total amount delivered to Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG members, referring to the 2020 financial year, was R$ 8.51 million. 9 ————————————————————————————————————————————————— ———————————— -- Educational 2 Social (Fates), 0 Legal Reserve Fund. Expansion Fund and Social Fund. The result is divided among the members in proportion to the business they carry out with the cooperative during the year. In this way, 65% of the amount was allocated to those who made savings or deposits, 20% to those who paid interest on credit operations and 15% for those who used other services or paid fees at the cooperative. 2021 year of virtual events The care required in light of the Cox/id—W9 paruderny made it necessary to reinvestigate the events, which migrated to virtual Jtataformas. It was like this with the Assemblies 9 with the Meetings of Core Coordinators‘ that took place in the online format‘ Digital Assembly In March 2021, for the first time Sicredi das Culturas RS/G held its 100% digital format Node Assembly. The change in format, in addition to allowing members to follow the agenda and vote on their Cases, is a way of preserving the health of employees and members, in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. In total, 2,226 members attended the Assembly. which presented the results of the cooperative in the 2020 financial year, the rendering of accounts, the audit reports and the Fiscal Council' is the important point in deciding the allocation of these results /-\ The decisions of the National Assembly were consolidated in the Ordinary General Assembly, renewed in April. The digital platform on which the Fox Assembly was transmitted, a chat was made available so that members could clarify their doubts about the agenda and express their views on the event. The new format was well received by members. SICred\dasCuLturasRS/MU MESSIASJOACI MELLO NLJDEO Coordinator at agéncxa Santo/Xugusto/RS I am grateful for the opportunity to participate in the Assembly and I am grateful to be part of this financial institution that works strongly on cooperative activism for social development and the realization of the dreams of its members. I also feel very grateful to those of the Cooperation to the health sector during the Covid pandemic—19r DEPOHWENTO WELLINGTON BON/-\C|N| DE CARVALHO Associate of the Sac Sebastian do Paraiso/MG agency, who participated in the first time at an Assembly in 2021 I found it very interesting to participate in the Assembly' as it gave me the opportunity to learn about Sicredi's internal dynamics, which demonstrates its transparency towards its members. Another factor that pleased and motivated me was being able to actively participate in the future decisions of the cooperative financial institution. In short, it's a great experience that I always intend to participate in. Governanga Cooperativism in Agﬁo Nincleo Coordinators are representatives of associated with the cooperative financial institution, they have the important role of supporting the cooperative in achieving its purpose and mission of disseminating cooperativism in society, in addition to being legal representatives of the other members. In order for Nujcleo Coordinators to expand their knowledge about Cooperatxvxsmo, their responsibilities, and to be able to contribute and repﬁe increasingly, the associates of their noc|cLeo‘ Sxcredi das CuLturas RS/MG held the course in 2021 Cooperativism in Acéo. The course was developed in a virtual format with the support of the Faculty of Technology of Cooperativism of the State of Rio Cnran — of the South (ESCOOP) — the first higher education institution in Brazil dedicated exclusively to cooperativism. 40 Coordinators from the Rio Center participated Large from SM 9 of Minas Geraxs. During the training, topics such as financial management — Cooperative Fair, Interpersonal Communication, Creativity and Innovation were covered, in addition to issues related to historxa and the principles of cooperativism. Council Learns In the mode of participatory management‘ the consethexros of Sicredi das CuLturas RS/MC: have an active work‘ participating indusxve in the management of the Sicredi System, as they act in the choice of the consemeiros of Centralsicredi SLJL/Sudeste who, in turn. They include the members of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Participagoes (SicrediPar), the controlling shareholder of the entire Sicredi System. To qualify this governance system, it was started in 2021, in partnership with IBGC — Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance, a special training for Administration and Tax Advisors. This training has five modules, which cover topics such as governance, ethics, sustainability, technical knowledge, the role of advisor, as well as innovation. Due to the pandemic, the course is held online. ‘Q [...] modules, which address topics such as govemanga, ethics. sustainability. technical knowledge inherent to the role of counselor [...] 9 ——————————————————————————————————————— —————————————————————— -- Board of Directors Responsible for setting the general and strategic orientation of the cooperative, in addition to supervising its management so that its ac_6es meet the interests of members. MEET OUR DIRECTORS Breitenbach, Eirno Pedro Von Niuhien (Vice—president)‘ Oidemar Paschoai, Previous José Vione (President), Ar1t6nio Pereira da Costa, Darci Carios Leai da Silva. Romeu /Akngeio de Jesus' AriaeLTeixeira and Pauio Rogério Sapiezinski Fiscal Council Responsible for monitoring compliance with the legal duties and statutes of the administrator I MEET OUR FISCAL ADVISORS: From left to right, Doglas Luis Baricleira, MEFKDS Wentz, Hugo Alberto Simon Board of Directors Responsibility for management executive of the cooperative. MEET OUR DIRECTORS: From left to right, Lutidio Cristiano Amorim Ourique (Business Director) Roque Enderie (Executive Director), Roberto Cortiarli ibaﬁez (Operations Director) SlcredidasCuiturasPS ReLatdr\oZUZW A new Headquarters on the way On October 19, 2021 , Sicredi das Cmturas RS/MC: laid the foundation stone that marks the completion of the work of its own Headquarters in |ju\'/RS. With a large, welcoming and comfortable structure, the The new space's main objective is to provide members and the community with the best customer service experience, always with an eye on their real needs. The work, in addition to modernizing and adapting the administrative structure, is a space that will be available to the community. region, which can take advantage of its installations for short moments. of education and information‘ The construction of the Regxonat Headquarters‘ which had its project thought up some time ago by the Admin Council, ira’ mark the centenary of the cooperative, valuing its growth and economic representation in market participation. m-. ~.-no ;I_ 'I-JV 1' 9' its 4-'.'»§'Ll" The proposal is also based on sustainability, as it has soft brises for better thermal comfort and luminous in its in- terror, respecting the solar ventilation of the building. Certﬁed glass with solar protection and good air-tightness will be used as part of the window. many for. when using the building, ensure. for example. savings in the air conditioning system of up to 3 Luminaries will also be specified, with greater energy efficiency, and cisterns for capturing and reusing rainwater. /-\s votumetriar with straight lines at the base and curves in the body, guarantee exceptionality in the region, having a very striking look at every corner, regardless of access. Three large patios were created on the ground floor, on the roof of the office and on the coverage of the Seder In this L'1Ltr'mo‘inctusive, a subtle tear was created in the brisesr generating a nwant for the city. Laying of the cornerstone of the new Health of Sicredi das CuLturas RS/MC is real\za— on October 19, 2021 Read the QR Code and watch the video About the Health of Srcredi das CuLturas RS/MC sucredrda-' Desen vol\ /whent0eCre5(\ment Espagos revmaUzados panaateﬂderos assodados and the community In 202'! the agencies Bozano, Hui Vmigrantes, \iuI'Centro, Nova Ramada and Panambi Cotrxpal‘ Located in Rio Grande do Sul‘ have remodeled sous-spaces to ensure even greater comfort and quality of service to members and the community. Check out the changes made: AGENCIA uul’ IMIGRANTES On February 19th we officially handed over the new structure of the agency Cia Ijuf Wmxgrantes. The Locawe received a new environmental and visual design, adding a more welcoming and comfortable space. From the remodeling of the environment, the The Ijun' Imigrantes agency now also has a cox/working space that associates can use to reaffirm mega deals with their clients. The agency is located at Rua Corona Dxco, 650, in Hun’/RS. Reporter\oZUZW AGENCIA BOZANO On June 28, the redesigned structure of the Bozano agenda was handed over to the community, with the aim of providing better experience to the asspdadps, with emphasis on .e:.n.1aa'M(1L' for installing the autoatenclimen 'parajaclmar sun WHO to, allowing more autonomy. The agency is available to the community at /-\\/enida Sitvio Frederico Ceccato, 402, in Bozano/RS. .- \ AGENCIA NOVA RAMADA On September 8th the reopening of the Nova Ramada agency took place, which had its new space designed to offer even more comfort in services, which include specializations, prexxmos and humans' 05 interactive environments translate the values ​​of cpoperativism of Credit and contribute to maintaining an increasingly close relationship with 05 associates and the community. The agency is located at Rua Dary de f\/larchi, 139, in Nova Ramada/RS. g.;red'da5[uLtura3R5/Mg ---------------------------- 9 IJUTCENTRD AGENCY The Ijuf Center' agency reopened in May , underwent a change not only in the environment but also in the service profile, which now has its focus on the business public. The space added a new one of— environmental and visual sign, making it even more spacious, welcoming and comfortable. Among the new features available to members is the café space. Even from Desenvotvwrnent0eEres (\ment service at the tables; normally, associates are also attended to in a personalized way to discuss business, investments and learn about the institution's solutions. nevity that was Incorporated into the agenda. 05 members You can schedule the use of the ESCRITORIO PANAMBI COTRXPAL to Agro space. go to work to supply the actions of your companies. Coworking has a table for meetings and television for the projection of audiovisual materials. Furthermore, a wide range of meetings with a structure prepared for business meetings is included in the space of the Hun’ Center‘ agenda which is located at Rua '15 de novebro, 217‘ in |juI'/RS. Also in September, the Panarnbx office Cotripal started operating at a new address. The new structure of this is located at Avenida Presidente Kennedy, 1969, Arco Iris neighborhood, next to the Cotripal Grads Unit/-\grope—cuaria Cooperative, in Panambx/RS, tom tone of service in the segment- Read the QR Code and watch the video of the reopening of the Uu\'Centro ReLat6rio20Z1 Branch Coworking space We offer our associates in the Minas Gerais branches in Monte Santo de Minas, Muzambinho and Passos, 2 MKHELE DNANE W0-I--I-mt” on Rio Grande do Sul at the agencies Ijul' Centro, ljul' \migran- RUVER GUARDA tes, Hui Sao Francisco, Panambi Centro and Santo Augusto the space Coworking Manager of the agency \juI'Centro financial services in an innovative space that brings us ever closer to our associates. We are a cooperative financial institution. You are our member, so we strive to provide the best possible experience for everyone. Members will be able to schedule the use of work space to promote the actions of their companies. This space has a table for meetings and 2 televisions for projecting audiovisual materials. Read the QR Code at DEPOH\/\ENTO SicredxdastuLturasRS/MD DesenvoLv\mento2CreS(\ment0 Crescimento em I\/Hnas Oerais <? %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% as Em Z021 We completed two years of operation in Minas Gerais, where we grew and increasingly expanded our relationship with local communities. In this process of evolution, we opened more agencies in the state of Minas Gerais to bring our financial solutions closer together and make a difference in the lives of people in the Southwest region of Minas Gerais. We arrived at Passos and Moﬂte Santo do I\/Hﬂas On April 6, 2021, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG wrote another chapter in its history of almost one hundred years of performance‘ with the influence of its activities in the municipality of Passos/MG. Born and resident in the community of Passes, the agency manager, Mayla Medeiros de Souza Fraga, reinforces Sicredi's commitment to the communities where the cooperative starts to operate, “we deliver this beta and cozy structure to the community, with the purpose of supporting people here to realize their dreams, their personal projects, to develop their businesses and their properties — from rural areas to even ﬁnancial solutions, Sicredi adds to its operating model pre-payment, interest and appreciation for the development of the communities in which it operates. Furthermore, it strengthens its operations through sustainable actions 2 social programs, which strengthen the values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. [...] we delivered this beta and cozy structure to the community, with the purpose of supporting people here to realize their Dreams [...] The Sicredi agency in Pas sos counts on a team of local collaborators and is located at Avenida Arouca' 525' 9 ReLatdr\oZUZW TEAM OF EMPLOYEES, ADMINISTRATION AND TAX ADVISORS AT THE INAUGURAC/30 DA/RGEAENCIA IN MONTE SANTCI DE MINAS/MG INITIAL OF ACTIVITIES IN PASSOS AND "ﬁE=1 El Lena QR Code 2 watch the video of the inauguration of the Passes/MG agency. SICred\dasCuLturasRS/MU Desenx/oLv\mentoeﬁrescxmento Ending the year 2021 with another achievement, Sxcredx das Culturas RS/MG opened its doors in Monte Santo de Minas on December 14th. The fifth Sxcredi branch in the Southwest region of the state, joins four others in the municipalities of SE0 Sebastiéo do Parafso, Ouaxupé, Muzarnbinho and Passos and the17 LoCaL\za— das in Rio Grande do Sut The agency has a large space , which offers comfort, proximity to pL]bUCO' Tamiris Andreazzi, manager of the agency, highlights the partnership with Monte Santo de Minas/MC: it became even closer with the delivery of this cozy structure for the community, which has the purpose of supporting people to realize their dreams, their projects and to develop their businesses, so that together they can achieve the objective of building an even more prosperous community' Read the QR Code and watch the video of the inauguration of the Monte Santo de Minas agency. In Minas Gerais, the Sicredi System already has more than 75 thousand members in 74 branches. Through credit operations, more than R$ 2.4 billion, and a total of R$1.6 billion are deposited at Sicredi. The System's assets in the state total R$2.4 billion. With five branches operating in the southwest of Minas Gerais, the Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG cooperative currently has more than 4,600 members. In 2021, more than R$1l+0 million were injected through credit operations and R$78.3 million in total resources. The operations of Sicredi das Cub turas RS/MC: in Monte Santo de Minas/MG began even before the inauguration of the agency. In the second half of 2021, after participating in the bidding process, the cooperative began to pay the payroll of 'W046 municipal public servants who work in the community. Through this service' the salary is credited directly to the servants' account with the Sicredi, which in addition to convenience, will also be able to count on the cooperative's products and services. Also noteworthy is the structure' practical, safe and technological relationship channels' Like the app and WhatsApp, hem Como, team of collaborators available to understand and meet the needs of each SI(red\dasCuLturasRS/MD given' Atm da Payroll, based on an agreement signed with the city hall of Monte Santo de Minas/MG, pLJbLL cos municipal employees can also count on the Consigned credit line, offered by the operating ca. In this mode the value is deposited in a current account and the installments are deducted directly from the employees' payroll. That the strength of the coLeLwo is (spa; Sicredwdastulturas 38 'J? “ 3' 6 Data Sicredi System Municipalities: + in 12 states AUHEO Faz a\/ida Program The Uniao Faz a Vida Program (PUFV) is our main initiative of social responsability. We believe in education as a way of involving and transforming the community where we are present, promoting cooperation and citizenship. How do we do i550? Through p | of 2969 children and adolescents and 299 teachers in 26 schools. In our region of operation, 0 PUFV is present in 6 cities Jéxa/RS, Augusto Pestana/RS, CoroneL Barres/RS, Ajuricaba/RS‘ Chiapetta/RS and Coronet BL Caco/RS. In 2021, all pedagogical assistance was carried out in the online format—Line Sicredi das Culturas RS/ MG Municipalities: 6 Schools: Teachers: + of Schools: Teachers: Studentsz + 3 million Students: Reporter\oZUZW O PUF\/ realxzou 0 en— Closing of the 2021 actions with in-person and digital educational exhibitions. ALunc:s cla Escola Munich FLmdamen— taL Teaching Pal Emﬂio de Menezes, from Aiuricaba/RS‘ carried out a visit to a company As part of the project developed at PUFV. by the 4th and 5th “BFID” classes, on the evolution of agricultural mechanization. g.;red'da5[uLtura3R5/Mg ---------------------------- 9 Involvement (community Empreender Program for Transformer In 2021, the Empreender para Transformar Program helped hundreds of non-profit organizations in the region where the financial institution operates. cooperative' totalizing R$ SSO in resources invested in cultural, sporting, sustainable and educational initiatives' The discussion of the projects disregarded in the 55th edition of the PET was renewed during a lxve in celebration of the Day |internac'\onaL of Coo aerativism' on the 3rd of July' In total, 193 Projects were approved by 'I55 entities in the states of Minas Gerais and Rxo Cnrande do Sul . The amount allocated for this program is coming from part of the result of the cooperative financial institution in its previous year. As part of this initiative, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG seeks to contribute to human development, as well as promoting the values ​​and principles of cooperation among communities through the promotion of sustainable and local actions' During the month of June, all H'1SU'ito~ projects were evaluated by a specific committee composed of department coordinators and agency managers. You projects approved by these Committees were also validated at a meeting of the Cooperativism and Governance Strategic Committee and the cooperative's Administration Council' 9 [...] promotes the values ​​and principles of cooperativism among communities [...] tf Program . Undertaking for 1 TfOI“>,'} m q..- u u: ‘- INSTITUTO INCLUA, DE SAO SEBASTIAO D0 PARAI's0/MG, INSTITUTION CONTEMPLATE BY PET CPM ESCOLA MUNICIPAL DE ENSINO FUNDAMENTAL DOM PEDRO L DE NOVA RAMADA/RS, ALSO COVERED BY PET More information about the Empreender para Transformar Program can be accessed on the website or via email: SICred\dasCuLturasRS/MU VANESSA GO! WENDER HEUSNER Communication and Marketing Manager at Sicredi das Cmturas RS/MG The PET Program has been growing more and more and with each new edition we are able to help more entities to carry out their projects and initiatives. , 0 PET already Contempmu 7'|The projects, impacting more than 412 thousand people and returning more than RS: 17 million to the Community. We hope that the program's resources can further help these institutions to promote their initiatives, contributing to the local development of society as a whole. DEPOH\/\ENTO Enx/oL\/rmanto(oma(omun\dade Dia C: Sicredi dag Cumras RS/MO reafﬂa Live to collect atimerwtos In view of the difﬁculties generated due to the C43 vid—19 parwdemic, the Socially responsible agencies have gained even greater importance. As a result, in 2021, C Day (Coupe rar Day), a movement organized by the Brazilian Cooperative Organization (OCB) sought to help society minimize the impacts of the pandemic through food collection 'A Fundagéo Sicredi' in contribution 3 Global Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), revived a r1ac\0naL campaign to raise funds for the purchase of food which were aimed at people in situations of food insecurity. The imcratrva was held in reference to the International Day of Cooperatives, which in 2021 was celebrated on 3rd June 10,8 is in line with SDG Z - Zero hunger and sustainable agriculture. LIVE DAY C 9 —————————————————————————————————————————————— ——————————————— -- 66 SICREDI DAS CULTURAS RS/MG DELIVERS 2.4 TONS OF FOOD FOR PEOPLE WITHOUT HUNGER Collaborate for a better, fairer and more egalitarian world as well 9' part of the work of Sr credi das Culturas RS/MG, which engages in local and global causes\5. The cooperative ﬁnancial institution celebrated C Day with a live broadcast on its YouTube channel (youtube‘com/S‘\cred\'dasCulturasRSMC:). The online event included the participation of musicians from Rio Grande do SL119 de Mxnas Gerais and with the publicity of the results of the Emprender para Transformar Program (PET). During We, the funds were collected to purchase basic food baskets, which were subsequently donated to needy families in municipalities within the cooperative's area of ​​action. In addition, —Si credi das Culturas RS/MG donated 1kg of clothing for each new subscriber to its channel on YouTu—be in the period. We raised a total of RS 14,374116, the resource due ReLator\oZUZ1 was converted into baskets bag' those for needy people in the communities of Hui/RS and São Sebastiao do Paraiso/MG, benefiting 193 families. ................. EnvoL\/rm2r1to(orna(ornun\dade Cooperagao pa Poota do Lapis ' cooperagéo 5; at the tip V'do ldpis Financial education is a recurring subject in Si - C | their finances. The actions were ‘xntensiﬁ ed during the National Finance Education Committee (ENEF Week), which took place between November 8th and May 8th, at the request of the National Financial Education Committee. Ponta do Lapis, in 2020. The Program also aims to cooperate towards a more sustainable ﬁnancial life, based on relevant actions developed to meet the needs of — various pts. assoados and local communities. Throughout 2021, from the Program's ﬁ rvarvceira education providers, in our agencies in Rio Grande do Sul and in COOPERAQAO NA PONTA DO LAPIS 'Q 0 Program has the purpose of cooperating towards a more sustainable ﬁnancial life 9 — ——————————————————————————————————————————————————— —————————— -- In 2021, nine training sessions were held with school students, in addition to training sessions. multipliers of the Program, impacting 114 people in face-to-face moments and 152 in online moments. During National Financial Education Week, we held 42 activities with children. young people and adults, with 1,212 people impacted face-to-face and 21,558 through digital actions, based on formats and videos with tips shared on social media. THE FINANCIAL EDUCAQ/lo (;es) WERE CARRIED OUT IN SCHOOLS, COMPANIES AND ALSO IN AGEN — CIAS DASICREDI DAS CULTURAS RS/MG. SicredxdastuLturasRS/MD ReLat6rio20Z1 Read the QR CODE 2 check out a playlist with financial education tips Involvement with the community With the aim of generating a positive environmental pact, at the same time as it generates economic and social growth in more communities, the SF credi rveutralized its broadcasts of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) in m'veL national. In Z021 we offset the 248.66 tons of carbon emitted by the cooperative in 2020. Central Sicredi cooperatives South/Southeast, which Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG is a member of, offset gas emissions through a composting project in Santa Catarina, which is aimed at 13 families of small rural producers of sufnosr and includes creating ' carbon emissions from composting pig farming waste. The initiative presents improvements in production processes; versiﬁcation of income for producers Locations, the protection of underground hfdrxcos resources and new markets for organic pulps. In ZOZW, we recovered 248.66 tons of Carboﬂo issued in 2020. Relatoriolili Donations to hospitals to combat Covid-19 Faced with the pandemic of Covid-19, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG adopted measures to help the communities in which it operates. In 2021, the cooperative financial gap institution signed donation contracts with the Charity Hospital and the Bom Pastor Hospital. both from Ijui/RS, with the Hospital Bom Pastor de Santo Augusto/RS, and also with Sociedade Hospitalar de Pariambi/RS. SICREDI MAKES DONATION TO HOSPITAL BOM PASTOR, SANTO AUGUSTO/RS SICREDI MAKES DONATION TO HOSPITAL DE CARIDADE DE |JUI(HC|)/RS 5ICredidasCulturasRS/I\/ID The amounts were donated merisalmerite from April to September to be used exclusively in the I faced the C-0 pandemic vid—i9. In total, R$ 150 million were allocated to the Hospitalde Charidade de Ijui'/RS, R35 90 thousand to Born Pastor Hospital in Iiui/RS, R$ 60 thousand to Bom Pastor Hospital in Sarita Augusto/RS 9 R3: 30 thousand to Sociedade Hospitalar :12: VI” Panambi/RS' surpassing the mark of R$ 300 thousand transferred during the month of 2021. SICREDI MAKES A DONATION<;To AD HOSPITAL BOM PASTOR IJUI/RS SICREDI MAKES A DONATION TO SOCIEDADE HOSPITALAR DE PANAMBI/RS DtPOH\/\ENTO Precursoreg of Cooperativism in Santo Augusto/RS receive homage'. ‘ I ‘ V ANTENOR JOSéV|0NE President of Sicredi das Cumuras RS/MC: With this tribute we show our gratitude to those who did so much for the cle Crédito cooperative and inspire us to make our work a memory every day. People who continue to inspire new generations to undertake and encourage local and regional development were honored by Adéo Gotta AdemirWe\LLer‘ Alberto Tomelero‘ Amdes José Bandexrar Antomo Heck Weﬂler. Antonio \/Ieira dos Santos, Arcehno Beazl, Aqumes Tadiem DurLo, Batxsta Chxusar CarLos Anthony \\/anox/Itch Deplere, CarLos Leodorx Andrwghetto, Carohna Bll\b|Ur Celso BoLI'\/ar Sperotto, Ctovxs Pornpeo of Matos, Dav! ALe><arIdre Ceolin, Dwrceu Prates Correar Edmund StadLer‘ Erich Breuning‘ Eurwco Prauchner, Helio Paxva Prauchrver‘ Hewtor Rodrwgues Antonio‘ Vdalmo Speroni. Ivo Cnongah/es of Lxma, Ivo Santos of Oliveira, Joéo Alves Teixeira. Jose Juarez Possato, Jorge Sperotto, Jose Lori Flores Gongawes, Luiz Moresco, Mano Regis Sperotto, NeLson Moresco, NeLson Berthmdo Kuss, Palomar \/wctor Montagner, Run Pohdoro Pinto, Silvio Ceoﬂrv. \/alcxr Gonzatto, Valdir Conzattor "V-_-H"! u-n,un H ‘H M 5 CfEd\CdSCLLLU'LlSR5/MD Involvement with the community The Corona Bicaco/RS unit is presented with Sicredi's digital region In September, the Sicredi digital network will be handed over to the Ce ronet Bwcaco/RS community. The team. ment, located in front of Sicredi's agency in the monk cfpio, indicates the time, temperature, in addition to transmitting information of public utility. A registered trademark of the cooperative financial genus, the watch symbolizes the presence of Sicredi and its integration with the communities where R,_ operates “This is our gift to our associated with the entire community of CoroneL Bicaco, we are proud to carry out this delivery that strengthens our Lagos as municipalities and its residents", highlights the presidents of Sicredi das Cutturas RS/ MCn,AntenorJoséVione. Head of the CoroneL Bicaco/RS agency, Sandro Augusto Rxgou. mayor of CoronelB\'ca:o, Jurandir da Silva‘ president of Smredx das Culturas RS/MG‘ AntenorJo5é Vwone. v'\ce—mayor of C0roneL Bicaco‘ ArLeu Vala —dar, and the executive director of Sicredi das Cmturas RS/MG. Roque EnderLe in the act of handing over the contract to the Community This is our gift to our associates and the entire community 9 90 years of history in Paﬂambi/RS On April 25th. Sxcredx celebrated 90 years of history in Panambi/RS. The day of the anniversary was marked by local radio stations, with a special program dedicated to this festive date. Furthermore, the cooperative financial institution S€]L,||’1t0L| to the Open Air Museum installed in the municipality. A successful historic rescue project that also takes the community to the Sicredi office in Panambi. The history of the cooperative in this municipality is the result of the Uniéo Cotoniat, an association of farmers, created in the second half of the 1920s, which emerged as a direct result of the cooperative movement led by Father The odor Amstad. In 1931, it was decided by SI(red1daSCuLturaSRS/MD that all Colonial Unions should install Caixas Rurals in their localities. This idea was very well accepted by the community of Neu-Wuerttemberg and thus the Caixa Rural was founded in Panamb1.no April 25th, 1931, which gave rise to the history of Sicredi in the mummcfion. L\'\/OLVVFVEHLULUY'Vr1LOY'VL.\'\L.d£1E Smredinoﬁused (1a;AberKJde Paﬂaﬂﬁ On October 1st, the Panambi cornuity ofﬁcially received the Sxcredx structure in the mumdpxo Open Air Museum. The space had been inaugurated in April when it received the stretchers With Sicredir's history in commemoration at the 90th year of the instxtuxc/éo ﬁnarmexra GO operating in Parwambi/RS Since then, Locat has started to retain several etementsr As an interatxvo game, ﬂorexras And bamosr due Esteio 51 The space is adorned with flowers <3 supports where they make ram pLarwLada9 arx/ores to provide shade to the Locat In the corvstrudo barvcos tom ma dexra pLaSt\ca. The populace has a space to sit outside Lu/re To guarantee the recreation there is a totem with the Cooperation Game, in addition to an interactive totem for photographs years in Panambi SICREDI SPACE AT THE CE/U MUSEUM OPEN AND OFFICIALLY DELIVERED TO THE COMMUNITY OF PANAMBI/RS. acquire your Drimeim switch. Romeo Wemx assumes the presidency. Opening of the new svcreui branch in Panambi. (with larger and modern installations. Elmo Pedro Von Mlihlzn takes over the presidency. Created in liuia Regional Finance Unit (one) unifying the accounting process asa coupe ativas do Panama Alnstltulgio pass: to be called the Credit Center of an Admission by Associadus Fanambi - Slcredl Panamhl LOL. 5'admada a livre adm' sin de assuciadns. August 15: Inauguration of the new sad: as S1:r2d|Panambl RS. on Rua Earéu do Riu Brenna. ‘I123. Centre. August 19: Inanguragao dz Agénnia Panambi 559 large. on Rua Paraiba, Ms. Bairrn Sin Jorgz. 1st of November: Extraordinary General Assembly held that brought together 1; conperatlvas do Slcredl a den ongsn. A Caoperaﬂva de Crédilo de Livr Admussio de ASS '05 Reg in das Eulluras — Sicredi das Eulluras R5. 20th of uutuhm: Inauguration of the Agenda Panambl Cotrlpal. in Ru: Hermann Meyer. 137. s zreui aas cuuuras RS/MG. RS/MO que lava m J trainings for listeners so ' b d" d d ' CUCD About 0 re 0 la a \a a cooperatl Cugg gm buggy Va' tips' information about barn: searching for products and services, divmga type of actions carried out but m >m>'mnsmasoupucmsts Communities', among other issues voted on by Credit Cooperation, expanded its reach. ' we joined the programming of Radio Progresso (Hm/RS), radio Ciranda (Santo Augu5tD/RS) and radio Sorriso (Panam bi/RS). And the biggest news is that we have also moved to digital formats with our podcast. On Spotify, you can check out issues related to the ﬁnancial market and stay informed about investments, new technologies implemented in Seton educagéo ﬁnancexra, among other topics. cooperative finance was the agenda of an ordinary session at the City Council in the municipality of Muzambinho/MG. On the occasion, the manager of the agency in the community, Felxpe Sperotto, presented to the Legislative House the actions carried out in the community and with partner institutions. as well as Cooperatxva's broad and bold expansion project. for the region. The Sicredi representative also presented to the legislature the Empreender para Transformar Program (PET), an initiative that allocates resources to sustainable, natural, educational and sporting projects carried out in the coupe rativa's area of ​​action, by non-profit entities and associated with Sicredi' 'Q presented to the legislative house the actions carried out in the community and with partner institutions 5i;red'da5( u[tura5R§/Mo - . . . . . . . . . . . -- ---- . . . . . -- 9 Involvementwiththecommunity Agendas Cdebram actuagéo nag Communities Sicredi das Culturas RS/ MG closed 0 am) 2021with five agencies operating in Southwest of Minas Gerais and in addition to celebrating the inaugurations in the municipalities of Passos/MG and Monte Santo de Minas/MG. also celebrated its two years of operation in the state of Minas Gerais, with the anniversary of the 550 Sebastian do ParaI'so/MG agency, the first agency of the co-operative established in the region, in 2019. The Gua- xupé/MC agencies: and Muzambinh0/ MG also celebrated their first year of operation and cooperativism in these two communities. These serious birthdays— cnvprosu were celebrated by teams of collaborators with associates. of core coordinators, authorities. partner entities, press and communities, during face-to-face moments at the agencies. 2 year anniversary of the Séo Sebastiﬁo do Faraiso/MG agency Point the camera on your cell phone and check out the anniversary video of the Muzambinho/MC agency: Point the camera on your cell phone and check out the anniversary video of the Cuuaxupé/MC agency: ReLator\ oZUZW Cooperaﬂva allocates resources to Seguraga pL1bLiCa '§ Partnerships with different segments and partner entities are among the hallmarks of Sxcredi's operations in the municipalities in which it is present. Among the great partnerships that the cooperative has also signed is the close relationship with 5 public security agencies, which play a major role in protecting the communities and institutions that make up the community. I’ In 2021, Sicredi das Cultas RS/MC: delivered resources to the Community Council of Ouaxupé Security (Consep). The amount was allocated to 79% of the Nlilxtar Police Company and invested in the organization of a vehicle to transform it into a police force, through the installation of equipment such as radio and cable. “We believe that when institutions come together to support each other, Sicredi das Cutturas RS/MG resumes the delivery of resources to the Guaxupé Community Security Council. SICred\dasCuLturasRS/MU ‘Behind we are doing local development and never happen. We are very happy to collaborate with the work carried out by the Military Power, our great partner, allocating part of the necessary funds to carry out the initiative", highlights the Regional Defense Manager, Hardi WendLand. ......... ......... Envotvwmervtocomacornunxdade Sicredi partida dag Celebrating the biennial of Séo Sebastiao do Parafgo/MG The month of October was special for the SEO municipality Sebastiao do Pararso/MG, which won ZOO arms of hysterax. To celebrate the date, we also participated in the active celebrations of the community's bicentenary, in which we have been present since ZOW9. Together with the cooperatives Sicoob, Unimed and Unicred, they are partners in the construction of the obetisco in honor of the city's ZOO, a monument designed by Adssp/CDL in honor of the date and cooperativism. The "fox" structure opened on October 25th, the date on which the city celebrates its anniversary, with the presence of authorities and partner entities. As part of the program, Sicredi also presented a commemorative plaque to the mayor, Marcelo de Moraxs and the Legistativo Peder. Furthermore, we recorded our expectations for the future in the Time Capsule stored in the City Council, which will be opened in the year 2050. . 5 CfEd\CdSCLLLU'LlSR5/MD vwrvervLoLumdLurwL.vxr.ar1e Foto_Luiz Paulo Fotograﬁa Last year, the municipality of Guaxupé, in Minas Gerais, was recognized as one of the main Christmas destinations in the state, due to the extensive Christmas of Light program promoted by the city hall. In 2021, once again, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG was part of this Christmas program with the “Christmas of Cooperation—TremdoSh:redi”' marked by fun', aLegria esoudarxedade. The initiative provided the community with train rides through the main points illuminated and decorated: from the municipality, with Exits taken in frame 3 cooperative agency‘ passing through the \greja do Rosario, Ave nida Dona Floriana‘ Cateclrat, Parque da Mogiana and Avemda Concle Ribeiro do Vane. They took part in the tours, hundreds of people who agreed to exchange their tickets for two kilos of non-perishable food. In total, around H30 kilos of food were collected (W.1ton) which were donated to the Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional (Apae) Casa da Children and Adolescents' charitable entities that operate in Guaxupé. ReLatdr\oZUZW Bright Christmas in Passos/MG The cooperative also participated in the Christmas program promoted by the Associação Amigos da Avemda da Moda in Passes/MG. Natal Huminado had several activities and among them, Sicredi's participation in Papax NoeL's house and the prize draw for members of the public who made purchases in associated stores. Slcred\dasCuLtura5PS enosnegécins 'f'tnL 3r'me'\o da 0 nbé 1 pa Computm' ReLat6rio202'I Prosperidaderiosriegocios Prosperar Program: Consulting for companies in partnership with Sebrae In 202i, Sicredi das Cul— turas RS/MG' in partnership with Sebrae ' made corporate consultancy services available again to its Legal Entity associates. In its first edition, in 2020, the Prosperar Program benefited more than 30 companies in the municipalities of liui, Panamá bi 9 Santa Augusto‘ In its second edition, in 202i, the Program was arranged to also serve the municipalities of Ajuricabai Augusto Pestana' Condor' iiui', Panambi 2 Santa Augusto' in Rio Grande do Sol, Q (15 municipalities of Guaxupé, Muzambinrio and Sao Sebastiao do Paraiso' in Mi nas Geraisserving 58 in — held in total. business plan, flow of (aix and economic indicators and ﬁI'iBI'iCEii'OSi The work carried out terri- di fererites stages, among them, that of diagnosis, in which an individualized and specific development program is built, taking into account consideration of the needs of each enterprise and the definition of an action schedule; the stage of implementing proposals and carrying out training, through consultancy and monitoring, in addition to the evaluation stage. According with the Business Director of Sicredi das Cul— turas RS/MG, Lucidio Cristia Check out testimonials from companies participating in Prosperar Read the QR CODE E I E and watch the |_' video of companies participating in Prosperar PROSPERAR PROGRAM at Amorim Ourique, one of the Prosperar's main objectives are to provide personalized service, focusing on the characteristics of each company to ensure assertiveness in decision-making, ensuring business growth. "In addition benefits for companies, the Program generates a positive impact on society and strengthens the virtuous cycle, due to the association between the cooperative and the community prospering together, generating income, job offers, increasing the value of local production and consequently the growth of municipalities", Compliments the director 9 BARBERIA GAU CHA Hui/RS The consultancy was very good for our company, it helped us to improve our processes and better visualize our business, especially the control the finances. We are grateful for the opportunity Fabio and Dwenxfer da Suva, associates of the agency Hun' Sac Francisco' TRATDR PEQAS Santo Augusto/ RS From the consultation that received us, we have a broader vision and better guidance in the structure and organization from the company. We improve the perception of what is happening within the company and also in the current market. I recommend that other companies have this experience, as it will be very important for current planning and future Fernando Cesar Morexra‘ associated with the Santo Augusto agenda. PATRFCIA WEIDLE PLEGGE ARTISAN CONFECTORY Panambi/RS With the consultancy they came up with new ideas and things to evaluate and rethink, such as, for example, the presentation of our products. Patricia Weidle PLegge, associate at the Panambi SaoJorge agency. COMATELINS Panambi/RS It was very important to have a professional opinion that pointed out the needs for improvement, so that we could have greater visibility and, with this, increase sales. I thank Sicredi for the opportunity. Volnex Amonrn da Suva‘ associated with the agency Panarnbi SaoJorge. COMPANY CIW COMERCIAL Panambx/RS The partnership between Sicredi and 0 Se brae added to our business. We consulted on job descriptions, which brought us better organization of each employee's tasks' Rubern Warutbrink. associate of the agency Par1arnb\Sao Jorge BONO BURGER Sao Sebastian do Parafso/MG We loved the consultancies, it was a spectacular! It was a huge learning experience. We changed the installations and the knowledge acquired will help us a lot, especially when it comes to controls. Furthermore, the consultant was very attentive and provided easy teaching skills. ><pUcations related to retail, in addition to demonstrating points to improve, vxsing the growth of the company. We just have to thank Sicredi and Sebrae for the excellent work they did. Marcelo Ferraz' associate at the Panambi Centro agency, JOTTA ESTETICA AUTOMOTIVA The consultancies were very productive and the processes and tools that were presented to us were very useful. This coming year, I intend to be able to better visualize the company's results after applying these tools and content. Maun'cio Pereira Junior, associate at the agency Muzambxnho SPEED HORSE CALQADOS Cnuaxupé/MC: I had already done some consultancy, but this one helped me to have new visions and tools. The spreadsheets will be used to optimize the company's controls. Gustavo Atexandre de OLi\/exra Pires‘ associated with the agency TESTIMONIALS Guaxupé SncredrdastuLturasRS/MU Prosperity in business ACBspe2SKredi pﬂNﬂOV€ﬂi Capability on iransﬂmwnagaocﬂgmai The evolution of society brings with it the transformation of several materials and equipment that are part of the population's daily lives. Among them, cell phones and, in the case of financial institutions, money. Paper money gave way to C0|’i'i Cartao payments and transfers and, more recently, Pix 2 to payments via Whats/-\pp. Furthermore, through the applications of their financial institutions on smartphones, people have access to their account and can carry out transactions in the palm of their hand, which Sicredi highlights as member autonomy. The digital transformation in the financial system and payment methods, as well as the strengthening of business with digital payment methods, will force the issues addressed by the cooperative in free training carried out for Microindividual entrepreneurs (MEis) and Microenterprises through the partnership with Asso 'Q The training included chat, exchange of knowledge, experiences and practical activities. Commercial and Industrial Company of São Sebastiao do Paraiso (Acissp). The so-called Digital Initiation and Inciuséo Program was carried out with two modules administered by the Si credit service team in the municipality. The training included chat, exchange of knowledge, experiences and practical activities. Among the topics covered, emphasis is also placed on the entire data security process that involves new technologies and the expansion and strengthening of business generated by the use of digital payment methods. After all, the offer of More than one payment option for customers generates convenience and convenience. o"'o To") F\ 9 ​​Sicredi forms a partnership with C0mAC|P, from Passos/MO, Reporter\oZUZW to deserwvower rwegécros Locaig /-\through a cooperation agreement signed in 2021 between Srcredi das CuLturas RS/MG and the Associagao Comerciat e Industrial de Passos/MG (Acip), companies associated with the two institutions now have differentiated financial solutions, with costs lower than the market. partnership, the Cooperative expanded its commitment to its members and is committed to strengthening the regional economy and contributing to the aggregation of income. 5ICred\dasSCuLturasRS/MU Directed towards the public Legal Entity (PJ), the Agreement provides for special conditions, with emphasis on the Credit Line for Working Capital, which can be used to cover 05 cash flow debts, finance the company's operating cycle and cover expenses related to the acquisition of raw materials and goods‘ thus COITIO payment of taxes, was charges‘ suppliers and payment fotha. Through this initiative, partner institutions reinforce the relevance of local commerce and companies in aggregating family income. as well as, in the generation of jobs in the Communities. The partnership became even more important when it was signed, in the midst of the pandemic, when it was necessary to create alternatives to support the maintenance and strengthening of the segment. . ' THE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT MANAGER OF SICREDI, HARDI WENDLAND, REPRESENTATIVE OF ACIP' ROGERIO BORGES DEANDRADE AND THE MANAGER OF SICREDI EM PASSOS' MAYLA MEDEIROS DE SOUZA FRAGA Prosperwdadenosnegécxos Sustainability and economy CHESLEY OLIVEIRA Entrepreneur The due thing most enchanted me in this migration — geo was really 0 rehacxonarnentor 0 contact' service and readiness to assist. El‘ "El DEPCNMENTO Read the QR CODE and watch the video Cnesley Oﬂveira's ever-serious relationship with Sicredi began when the cooperative transferred to 530 Sebastiéo do Parafso, in ML nas Gerais' and some friends transferred their accounts to the cooperative and commented on the service provided. Soon after, he received the team of collaborators and began carrying out his transactions with Sicredi das Culturas RS/MC: to evaluate what this support would be like. After this initial contact, he was presented with a credit card specfﬁcally for those who wish to invest in sustainability through ‘staia solar energy generation’. “Making this investment in Solar energy was a desire that we have been working on for a long time: a lot of time, a lot of savings that it generates for us as a company and because it is sustainable”, he explains. With the reduction in the electricity bill, he says that it is possible to page the investment that was realized through financing at Sicredi. Reporter\oZUZW Agency and Financial Consulting How differentiators Agility, close service and simplicity provided 05 benefits that associate Fernanda Tavares, from Guaxupé/MG, found at Sicredi. “When we opened our business, we always considered working with a financial institution that wasn't too bureaucratic. As our routine is very busy, we work with customer service and production, we prioritize a more ﬂe><\’veL institution", explains the associate. She says that With the start of Sicredi's activities in Guaxupé, they were curious to know what this new institution that was arriving in the city would be like. “I was very well attended to” with kindness, personalized service and via Whats/App, which I found easy, as our schedule is very busy. They offered me a lot of advantages, which made us close a great partnership." Fernanda took up his business by reUsing deliveries by “delivery" and after being able to open a store with ambiervte differs rencxed to receive your customers. “Beginning to serve in this space brings professional growth, in addition to being the "When we open our business, it's always a dream come true." Among 05 benefits of carrying out its operations with Sicredi, the associate highlights the reduced fees and the constant concern with the company's growth. Furthermore, the ASSOCIATE OF SICREDI IN GUAXUPE FERNANDA TAVARES partnership with 0 Sicredi pas S\'biLita a Fernanda Tavares Doceria offer more comfort and ease for its customers through payment methods As PWX is the card machine, we thought about working with a financial institution that wasn't so bureaucratic [...]" 5ICred\daSCuLturasRS/MU Prosperwdaderwosrwegécxos 9 Credit for business investment Associate of the agency | work with the construction of structures for subsequent leasing for companies' In 2018, with the support of Sicredi, it built its first pavxlhaor since erltao was 'remaining in more constructions and expanding Its assets lrwinvestment in solar energy to guarantee economy Vinicios Rodrigues da Rosa , assodadodaagência|juiCer1- tro, is the owner of the pizzeria Sabor da Serra, in Iiui/RS. In 2021, the companyorxo decided to implement its project to install a renewable energy plant for ensure more savings in SLIE EVTIDFESB. To do this, he sought Sicredi's support. MARCOS PAD I LHA Entrepreneur Sicredi gave me the security to be able to invest, to be able to quickly build my works and have cash flow, which is why I have always adhered to 05 resources that Sicredi made available to me. We install T14 plates in two systems, one on the land next door, where there is a large projection of plates. We started the installation process in September 202! and in my tub we were already generating energy and benefiting from this generation. 3 Deﬂowwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww both down. Before that, our consumption generated around R$ 7,00000, adding up our three units and after the installation of the plazas, the value should not exceed R$ 1,00000. Eatgo Sustainable, the SE3 system page per own account and 0 max; This is interesting because, at the end of this financing, the proceeds can be reversed into an investment in the company", states SOCEUO' ernpreSaﬂaL The businessmen Carlos 9 Viviane Oster, associates of the Ijul' Mmgrantes' agency, manage the business with great complicity of the family. A company with which Sicredi has been linked since the beginning' Contrxbuilding to its C|'ESC\rT1E|1tO' SICred\dasCuLturasRS/MU VINICIOS RODRIGUES DA ROSA 3ropHetaH0 from the pizzeria Saborda Serra, |]u\'/RS 3we approached Sicredi for the first time in search of financing to release energy, but there was an obstacle, because the land next to the Jizzaria was not ours and that was a reason for withdrawal, at the first moment' So Sicredi, hi partner, so that we could acquire this space to expand the pizzeria and, from that, invest in solar energy' Sicredi has been this Jarceiro, he has helped to achieve our 505 dreams while company Q tam— Already in our personal lives' DEPOHWENTOS CARLOS AND VIVIANE OSTER Entrepreneurs 0 Sicredi came into our lives in 2007 and in 2010 We bought our first truck financed by the 'cooperative financial institution' After that we signed a consortium letter and Sicredi helped us in Through several stages of our life, in 2018 we bought another truck and in Z02'! We purchased another vehicle. We have had the company for 15 years in the transport sector and whenever we have had a Hesse period, Sicredi es— was at our disposal and that makes us very happy. ewnﬁ-> 2 ~— rm. -‘:4 . :§‘. .'.¢,''r « ' 'V '( ' 4' 'BA _ ",1 .' ".. ' ' 5' 'f "' ' ': In W" S: 4: .¢'. »-'',' :' 1 ' : . ; ' ~ ' ' I' , .3,' - r . IA) -\' ' '. :5. :é5.'."5:'.*' ReLat6rio20Z1 Desen lvimemto RuraL 1'fomarm* ' 'av E'Hﬁ,[ H Credxto mndl Mu Br' Wham, wdem t ;uo,».\mo para 0 SiCred\da5CuL [ura3RS/Mﬁ ---------------------------- Developing the Live Corn campaign Roberto Rodrigues, former minister of AgriCullura, mark launch of the 202i/ZOZZ Harvest Plan For the launch of the Plan in the 2021/2022 Harvest, on the 1st July, Sicredi das Cultu ras RS/MG held a live with the presence of the e><—minister of Agriculture, Roberto Rodrigues , who presented in his speech the importance of Brazilian agribusiness for the world, in addition to addressing the panorama of agribusiness in Brazil. The event was broadcast on the cooperative's YouTube channel, and Rodrigues highlighted the preponderant role of technology in increasing productivity in the country and the importance of the quadrilateral of the camper's income made up of: technology, rural insurance, guarantee prices and rural credit', including the Safrai Plan. The speaker also called for the fundamental integral can between an urban area and rural, pols iuntas They constitute economic development. The Executive Director of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG, Roque Enderle, mediator of the live, highlighted that Sicredi is one of the financial institutions with the largest representation in agribusiness, having been the second ﬁnancial institution that released the most rural credit under the title of Safra Plan Z019/2020, with more than 20 billion reais granted. The Institution serves large, medium and small producers. especially those linked to family farming. “At Sicredi, agribusiness produces a better world. The result generated in the cooperative returns to the community in a virtuous cycle that stimulates the economy of the region, generating income and seeking 0 collective gain". highlighted the Executive Director of Sicrecli das Culturas RS,' MG, Roque Enderle ReLator\oZDZ1 Sicredi forms a partnership with startups to bring technological innovation to producers in the region With the aim of expanding the use of technology to facilitate the process management of rural properties, Srcredi signed a partnership with star—tups. The partnership began in 20'19 when the financial institution joined the Langado challenge by the AgTech Garage Awards' award held for one of the Latin America's largest innovation hubs for agrobusiness' 0 AgTecr1 Garage' 0 of saﬁo was to promote the empowerment of rural producers with access to new technologies to support the development of innovative solutions applicable in the field. Through this partnership, tools such as applications and software were created to help farmers modernize their processes. Based on the case, Sicredi is the winner of the AgTeCh Garage Awards. This partnership also benefited region, through Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG, one promoted in September the first meeting between representatives of the startup and producers from the region' seeking to implement the tool in optimizing production processes, with the initial project being implemented in |]uf/RS and Panarnbi/RS with the participation of some producers. 5ICred\dasCuLturasRS/MU According to the Agro Business Advisor at Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG, Regis Bruxel, this partnership has already been implemented by other cooperatives linked to the Sicredi System and proved to be effective in practice, increasing access to markets, valuing products and reducing costs for producers. “Now we are going to bring this reality to our region. The startup provides fruit and vegetable producers with the possibility of managing production on a single platform, making it possible to have a field notebook {J1 gital‘ to recreate harvest estimates, issue labels and adapt to tracking standards product scope‘ what au— ><iLia also the producer in his decision-making. To make this possible, the cooperative made an investment of R$ 2000.00 per participating member." Regis Bruxeld also highlights that, in addition to offering the tools, the startup carries out training with producers and visits the field to monitor its functionality. ' "Making the bridge between movement and the countryside is a Sicredi commitment. Agriculture is a productive sector that is increasingly becoming modernized and this technology, capable of making the field more and more connected, can also make a difference in the lives of our associates", highlights the Agro Business Advisor at Sicredr das Culturas RS/MG, Regis Bru>< eL. Desenvoivimentorurai Field Days in partnership with Uriijui' In 2021, we were present at the Field Days organized by the Regional University of the Northwest of the State of Imigrantes, Ricardo Enderle, and Evertori Diiii, then manager of the agency Ijui' Sac Francisco, together with the Rio Grande do Sui (Uniiuf) teams, for— of the agencies, created the partnership of the institution iV10Va€5€5 9 i'J95qUi5aS V93“ tuigao ﬁnancial Cooperative zadas by the University towards the sector educationali The i0FT1€Fita|'0 3SV0|'1-'3S5Ci0- agency managers Santo Augusto' José Paulo Salet, |iui' EVERTON DILL Agency manager Proximity to the producer, the student, 9 with all those who are in season involved with agribusiness. In addition to the partnerships we have established with the University, we have an agreement to initiate and finance the dreams of those students who want to invest in their training within the Agronomy, Veterinary Medicine and also Medicine Courses. Thus, we seek to be present from college until the professionals establish themselves as producers, for example, and, of course, many children of producers are our associates, so they look for always foster these partnershipsi 9 TESTIMONY Reporter\oZUZW So uctions that generate prosperity One of the differentiators of cooperation is the appreciation of communities and the commitment to supporting their prosperity. At Sicredi, this is reflected in several actions. Among them, the construction of sotugos that can support members and communities in their needs, generating development. '\nCpat- especially in Caté's crops, the low temperatures of an intense winter impacted cut production and, consequently, the market. To support not only coffee growers, but also other rural agricultural producers, livestock and horticultural producers who grow their crops hit by frost, the cooperative made the Emergency Agro Credit Line available to this PC|bUCO. This alternative was created especially to support agn — cultivators in dealing with the damage caused Due to this climatic adversity, emergency lines were also created for individuals and companies, considering the reduction in income and gross revenue caused by the economic recession generated by the pandemic. Personally, for example, these resources are destined to pay debts with larger sums, special check fees and credit card bills 9 for businesspeople and The resources were able to contribute to business working capital. HARDI WENDLAND Regional Development Manager at Sicreoi das Cutturas RS/MG Many people and companies have gone through or continue to go through delicate moments and difficulties in their financial organization in these years of pandemic. Therefore, we believe that the availability of resources through these emergency credit modalities reinforces our mission, in the search to Contribute to the quality of life of people. people and with the development of the communities in which Sicredi is present — working with rates lower than those used in the market and tactile access to credit. CD |— Z to E O D_ to Q SI(red\dasCutturasRS/MD Desen\/oL\/\mentoruraL More security on rural properties Another type of credit created based on the need of CG communities in the southwest of Brazil for" the specific Lmha to assist members in protecting their rural properties. The fox' initiative prepared taking into account the evident need for this resource as part of a set of actions to ensure security and protection of agricultural properties in the region. Through the Credit Line for the acquisition and installation of security equipment, it is possible to finance the acquisition and installation of the items necessary to protect property. Among them, security cameras and equipment for internet installation‘ by e><empLor Check out the testimonials of our associates how we support agribusiness in 2021. GABRIELI MURARO DE OLIVEIRA EJONAS DE OLIVEIRA GabrieLi Muraro de 0Li\/eira 9 Jonas de Oliveira associates of the Condor/RS agency, —ad mimstrate the family property and count on the support of Sicredi to carry out their dreams. In addition to investing in the property, the associates won the house for, according to Gabrieli: Associates of the Condor/RS agency The Muraro property appeared around 1982, when my son and daughter had a few hectares of land' together with my father Porvotta from W989 they started the dairy business, at the beginning with a small number of animals and low productivity, they made milk from mac, they made cheese and sold it in the city. In 2015 I graduated in Business Administration and my TCC '(eve As theme the analysis and restructuring of my family property' Until Z017 I still worked in the town, but I decided to return to the property and run the family business together with my husband and Read OQR CODE with rneu parents. In 2019, we realized our first 9 3555“ 30 dream here on the property, which was the construction of our house, “'90- through a consortium of Sicredi iRnoveis Now, in this year 202'}, we realized the sleep of the construction of the cattle shed — food for the cows and the milk supply. So Sicredi is always present, be it in the realization of the dream of the warehouse's house, investment in machinery and also in the financing of the Farm. Lucfdio Cnoergen, The Augusto Pestana /RS agency received support from Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG to finance the tractor they needed to carry out activities on their property. But this was not the first time that the Cooperative financial institution was at his side. Luddio also financed Assomado da Cou a desensitizer, at the Augusto Pestana/RS agency, to treat seeds. LUCTDIO GOERGEN E E I went to Sicredi and said I needed to rent some land, they told me that I was The resource was available and all we had to do was create the project, read the QR CODE, H, pegax and plant the land. . I- and watch the video, IEI Associate at the Aiuri caba/RS agency, Romeo Porazzi has worked with dairy farming since an early age. Over time, he realized the need to modernize the production structure. to innovate and improve work on the property. To grow, Romeo sought support from Sicredi das Cuituras RS/MG, with which he remains very close. E ’ E I Read the QR CODE '- and watch the video. And Associates of the agency {O ronei Bicaco/RS, Adriana and Marco Baggio, found in Sicrecli the support they needed to grow and modernize their agribusiness. For eiesi, the service offered by the Cooperative Financial Institution is one of the main differentiators. Read the QR CODE and watch at: Video. ReportZUZi ROMEU PORAZZI Associate at the Aiuricaba/RS agency When we started here ‘years ago’ we expected to work with 20 employees milk 20 cows, then genre built a small shed. I built a bigger shed, for 40 cows, but I needed to enlarge and today I have TOO many cows. Before, the structure was small and we used mechanical milking machines, today everything is piped and with extraction. We are following evo iugao to guarantee our well-being and that of the animals. When my father was still alive. he put us inside Sicredi. So with Sicredi it’s family. to summarize, father 2 son. ADRIANA AND MARCO BAGGiO Associates of Coronel Bicaco/RS agency Every time you need something, you're at the door, if you're very responsive, Sicredi supported us with the COST line' Investment line' agricultural machinery' revolving credit, everything we need we've been able to get to this day . We acquired one ten years ago, but now we are investing in this harvester because over time we need to go, we need to update ourselves. The process was quick and we were happy with Sicredi. AFTER!\/iEi\|TOS Developing a Sooho nerve center as a family For those who work in rural production, equipment and machinery can have different functions. They can represent just a machine that supports the daily routine, or have great relevance because they represent a “work” for the farmer or farmer. - tora, generating greater quality of life and well-being and also contributing to increased production. For the couple Claudemir Jose’ Plza and Nilva Aparecida Alves Piza, associates of Muzambinho/MCI, the The conquest of a tractor has an even greater meaning that goes beyond what Lena benefits from the QR CODE and watch the video showing materials that the memo team represents. “/-\ agriculture is the toughest Life a hole nowadays we see that it is increasingly valued, prmmpalmem te familial farming' The bad times' more strength, we work together' but it is our survival, literally- mentef highlights Nilva. In the community where Sal resides, rural producers reline themselves to make silage (feed for livestock) each one on a property "It's a dream that we always try to fulfill. I saw 5 colleagues working on a big tractor and us on a small one, so we were left behind' And we managed to achieve this with the support of Sicredil explains the associate He says that when the Sicredx agency in Muzambinho/MG was still being structured, he was already observing the location and thinking about possible partnerships with the cooperative' Nilva highlights that the acquisition of the tractor “is a dream of con sumo, but it's also a real personal zation." The son, who has a passion for tractors, spoke in 2018 and thanks to this partnership, the family built a SO|'1|'1O which was his too. BUSINESS MANAGER. ALVARO RIBEIRO SALDMAO , ASSOCIATES NILVA AND CLAUDEMIR PIZA AND THE MANAGER OF THE SICREDI AGENCY IN MUZAMBINHO/MG, FELIPE SPEROTTO 9 Support 3 production Coffee farm in the southwest of Minas Gerais ASSOCIATE OF SICREDI IN S/"A0 SEBASTI/"A0 D0 PARATSO/MG, HERCUO DE SOUZA REZENDE ReLat6r\ o2UZW Traditional nas Sicredi agencies throughout the country and on Brazilian tables, coffee is widely recognized in Minas Gerais. In addition to being a typical drink, it is part of the state's culture and represents one of the main economic activities, generating employment and income for the population. On farms such as Hercflio de Souza Rezende and Renata Donizete Azevedo Rezende, members of Sicredi das Culturas RS/IVIG in São Sebastiao do Parafso/MG, that the grain is produced to later reach our houses. The member has lived with this culture since he was a child. At 50 years old, he considers that he has been working with coffee for 43 years under the influence of his father and grandfather. “Coffee represents everything. penis, I live off coffee." says Hero'- lio, proud of the achievements achieved through work on the farm. Among them, his daughter Paula's Faculty of Medicine and the development of the rural property itself. Coffee production is the member's true passion. On their farm, the couple plants 26 hectares of coffee, divided between irrigated and dry farming. At Sicredi. The members counted on the support of the cooperative to pay for the crops, improvements to the property, as well as resources for the acquisition of a coffee sweeper. Coffee production is the member's true passion. Relationship and ConRan;a Sicredi offers ideal solutions such as current accounts, cards, credit, investments, savings, insurance, consortiums and much more. 55 million members generating collective growth, because Sxcredx is the alternative that reinvests resources in the regions in which it operates, helping to develop the local economy. Always offering fair rates and close, human and digital service, in more than 22 branches across Brazil, in the palm of your hand. At Sicredi, money makes a better world $._j. FRANCISCO. LUNARDI GUARDA Regional Development Manager In 2021, one of our biggest deliveries commercial area was an increase of more than 30,000 ﬁnancial locations aggregated in the relationship with 05 of our associates. Through this close and focused action based on the needs of our membership, we were able to contribute to the realization of many dreams and personal projects of our members. These solutions, in addition to promoting adherence to a financial life for some people, have brought accessibility and autonomy to our members, still cooperating with 0 economic development: -3 mxa Locat' xsso will be counting on aspects of financial education that have been one of the work fronts promoted by Cooperativa' Reia (ionament02Conﬁanga An ario of Pix 0 Pix won 05 brasiiei r05 2, am ZOZ'i, surpassed other payment methods such as TED, DOC, bank slips and checks issued in the country. Brazil was even the country that adopted the fastest payment method in the world' 0 Pix is ​​free and easy to use use, factors that lead to their high adherence 9 i550 signiﬁia in — Ci’E'i'TWE|’itD in the economy. Sicredi das Cuituras RS/MG has encouraged the use of Pix among its members, making materials available that facilitate access to the QrCode for payments, which are debited instantly. In 2021, Q 0 Pix was made available to members in Minas Gerais and Rio Graride. It is free and easy to use. factors that lead to its great success and this means an increase in the economy. of the South 7,351 materials between displays, keychains and stickers to speed up reception. 05 associates Raui i\/lager, from Ijui/RS, and Renan Rezeride Spineli, from Guaxupé/MCI' joined the use of Pix in their companies and report their experience 9 ———————— ——————————————————————————————————————————————————— ——— -- Report Evolution of Pix in 2021 Throughout 2021, Pix has been increasing innovations through its use. Check: - Pix scheduled. for making payments on dates selected by members. - Hybrid Boleto, receipt method with which it is possible to change the bill in the traditional format with bar code and 0 QR Code Pix together. in the same document. - Pix withdrawal, will allow members to make withdrawals at commercial establishments, shared ATM networks and Pix participants. - Pix change. withdrawal of resources in kind that can be made during the payment of Lima purchases in commercial establishments. To find out more and enjoy the benefits of Pix look for your manager at the agency or get in touch via WhaI:sApp 51 3358 4770. RAUL MAGER S6cio—director of Indupropil, associate of the Ijui Centro agency In 2021 we completed 20 years as a company and we have always been Sicredi's partners. When this new payment method appeared, Fix, which was offered to us by our manager, we didn't hesitate to adopt it, especially because our company works closely with technology, in terms of e-commerce, so it's normal for us to be keep an eye on new developments that appear on the financial market. Pix was very relevant because it brought agility to payments. In addition to in-person sales. In our store, we have many online sales, so this instant payment speeds up the entire process, which results in a better experience for the customer. And as a manager, what I thought was cool is also the issue of cash flow, as the money goes directly into the account, then. Looking at it from this perspective, it is much more practical than when it was necessary to make a bank deposit and this is very financially healthy for us SicredidasCulturasRS/MG REZENDE SP|NEL Associate of the Guaxupe agency' I am the owner of Café Spineli and my sales are generated through e-commerce' via Instagram and WhatsApp, so I needed an easy payment method so that the customer could pay quickly instantaneously, also speeding up the shipping of products. I went to Sicredi. I opened my account, found out more about the cooperative financial institution and activated Pix. It is very good because it is an instant payment, free of charge. and payment is made immediately, on any day of the week and at any time. As we sell throughout Brazil, the Customer can place an order, make payment and I will immediately release the shipment to the Cafe to arrive even faster and watch the testimonial video TESTIMONIALS Rela(ionarnentoeConﬁanga Sicredi delivers Life Insurance premiums to members In 2021, Sicredi das Cul— turas RS/MG delivered more Life Insurance premiums to its associates. Denise Muller Horz and Rudi Dessbesell, associates of the agency, were included. Pa nambi Centro, Marcos C:il— Berto Fabbrin and Ioao Lucas Casalini' are members of the iiui Imigrantes agency. The residents had their insurance numbers drawn by the Federal Lottery. Through Life insurance offered DENISE MULLER HORZ' ASSOCIATE OF AGENCIA F'ANAMBi CENTRO AND RECEIVED WITH THE LIFE INSURANCE AWARD JOAO LUCAS EASALINI, ASSOCIATE OF ACIENCIA |JUi IMIGRANTES RECEIVED THE LIFE INSURANCE AWARD by Sicredi' in partnership with Icatu Seguros, it is possible to — earn the equivalent of the insured capital in Life' through draws held during the month. Member of the team for over 30 years, Marcos Gilberto Fabbrin, resident of Iiui/RS. He said that he took out the insurance thinking about his children' when they were still little. Today the member would have grandchildren and still thinking about the future, he would leave the amount he received earning in Sicre di. With Sicredi insurance, 05 members have more security and peace of mind in their daily lives with coverage and terms that adapt to each person's lifestyle, with a series of different coverages and assistance. /-\in addition, the different options offer speciﬂc assistance that guarantees more comfort and convenience for the insured and their family. RUDI DESSBESELL, ASSOCIATE OFACIENCIA PANAMBI CENTRO RECEIVED WITH LIFE INSURANCE AWARD MARCOS GILBERTO FABBRIN, ASSOCIATE OFAGENUA |JUi IMIGRANTES RECEIVES LIFE INSURANCE AWARD financial sector, October 31st was chosen as World Savings Day. Throughout the month of October, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MO dedicated itself to the topic, seeking Mainly, resolve debts and highlight the importance of maintaining a financial reserve. A5 Were actions carried out through internet service? Companies, videos and publications will be published on social networks. Read the QR CODE and watch the cooperative video. Savings is the traditional way of saving money with low risk, security and the possibility of withdrawing the amount whenever you want. It is the best known investment option, being the most suitable for those just starting out. a +n dressing At Sicredi, savings yield more, because members earn part of the results of their Cooperative, thus increasing their profitability and the amount saved is reinvested in the region, strengthening the Local economy. Differences in savings at Sicredi -Security, which at Sicredi is also guaranteed by the Credit Cooperative Cuarantidor Fund. - Differentiated profitability, because at Sicredi savings yield more ‘ia’ than members earn part of the remainder of their cooperative' - The close relationship with the community, whereby the value saved is reinvested in the region, strengthening the local economy Investing in Sicredi is cooperating for a more prosperous society SICred\dasCuLturasRS/MU 1050 CARLOS MANCHINI Member of the agency \juI'Séo Francxsco Realizes that having savings at Sicredi is more advantageous Firstly because of the issue of security, Secondly because of the profitability, which is different, and also because of the cooperative's partnership with the community' DEPOH\/\ENTO ReLacionamentneConﬁ'anga V\queﬂdmha dc)braSHeWoW Aquhapoupanga repdernag For the third consecutive year, Poupanga maintains its leadership as the "darling\'— nha of the brazilian". According to data from the 49th edition of the 2021 X-Ray of the Brazilian Investor, developed by the Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Markets Emtxdades (ANBH\/1A), 8 out of every 10 people know about or invest in savings. Simple: and traditional, Poupanga is a good This is an option for those who are investing or saving money for their emergency reserve, which is that investment that they can fall back on in the event of an unforeseen event. 5‘ 8 out of every 10 people know about or invest in savings. 9 Furthermore, it is an easy practice, exempt from income tax and with digital access that allows more autonomy for your family. In your time, you can program monthly applications with a value of your choice, or make one-off investments in the amount you want. you want and whenever you want. And if you need to redeem the CaLcuLa multidata system, rescue the best birthday date with the highest profitability— It's for you. 66 Reiatoriolﬂli Market opportunities to increase spa profitability Portfolio Protection and expansion of ﬁnancial assets require solutions that meet the specificities of your ﬁ nancial life, which is why we customize structured and complex operations, with 9-level expertise. of knowledge technician. We are a reference for identifying and suggesting to members investment opportunities that enhance the financial profitability of their investments. Through a pre-existing relationship, different service hours, active and recurrent contact, investors with a bold proﬁle, achieved gains in excess of 300% of the Seiic value in 2021, (Selic 202i average 455% pa .) in investments with greater risk and greater volatility' We have a robust portfolio and intelligent options to increase the investor member's financial capital. With a team of experts, together we build the most appropriate diversification strategy to maximize the results of your investment portfolio, always considering your investment profile, risk tolerance and your financial planning. Furthermore, we contribute to your succession and tax planning through a strong portfolio of pension funds' which aims to protect your patrimony, offer the possibility of increasing profitability with a focus on the long term‘ With Corporate Pension Plans, it is possible to optimize the ﬁscal benefits of your company. /-\In addition to being the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil, we are recognized with excellent knowledge in the ratings from Moody's, Fitch Ratings and S&P, which proves the size, security and financial soundness of the Sicredi system. investment opportunities and the financial arrangement, which is a reference in quality of service and transparency. We have a robust portfolio and intelligent options to increase the investor member's financial capital. 5ICredidasCuiturasRS/MU KELI SCHUMANN ANDRIOLLI Investment manager Fitch Rail i n_r.< .- Fitch: AA M0oDY's ANALYT I C S Moody's: Aa2 STANDARD ?§I36OR'S Standard 8 Poor' 5: AAA ReLa(\0nament02C0nﬁan§a Cpoperativa expands partnerships with mu ﬂidpios SUBSCRIPTION OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN IPREM MUZ AND SICREDI SIGNING OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE HOUSE OF COUNCILORS OF MUZAMBINHO AND SICREDI In 2021, Sicredi das culturas RS/MG expanded its partnership with the municipality of Muzamb+nho/MG through an agreement signed with the Social Security lnstxtuto of the Sen/ Idors PL'IbH cos of the Municipality, 0 Iprern MUZ' 9 with the Chamber of \/ereadores. From these partnerships, 05 Iprem beneficiaries, as well as 05 Peder Legxslatxvo municipat services, began to count on the credit line benefits. Consignment offered by Sicredi. In the municipality of Passes, this agreement was also signed with the prefecture, allowing municipal civil servants in the community access to this line of credit. In this modality, the amount is deposited into a current account and the installments are deducted directly from the payment slip. Credit can be used for different purposes and has benefits such as ease and convenience, as well as security and responsibility. This is a sum which also reinforces the cooperative's role in aggregating income and contributing to improving people's quality of life, since these resources can be used to organize and balance financial lives, as well as, to reUse dreams. SIGNING OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN SICREDI AND THE CITY OF PASSOS Reporter\oZUZW Tribute to public servants mark the month of October In the month of October, Ptlbﬂco Servxer Day is celebrated 9 to home nage these professionals who cooperate for the construction of a more prosperous 50- society. Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG buswu approaches employees in its area of ​​operation in Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul to understand their needs and offer products and services with special conditions' "At Sicredi I found competence, quality and professionalism. I am grateful to know that I can count on the support of the cooperative financial institution", says Daniela Bussler Schvviderke, an associate at the Coronet Barres/RS agency. In addition to counting with 0 consigned amount, the ptlbtic server also enjoys 05 benefits of Sxcredx cards. S|[rQd\da5CuLtura§RS/]\/VG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -- 9 ReLa(\onar'nent0eC0nﬁan§a Open Finance: find out more about this new development in Brasit's ﬁnancial system Brasxt is coordinating one of the largest Open Finance programs in the world. This is a change in the ﬁnancial system, which saré to be opened. The open financial system will allow the sharing of data on products and financial information This is done through the integration of platforms and technological infrastructures of participating institutions and other companies authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. With the sharing of information between institutions, the offer of products and financial services that are more suited to people's needs and realities will be favored, which should also generate an increase in in the economy. Open Finance will bring a technological change to the financial system and provide a better experience for members, as it will guarantee freedom by reducing the barriers that made it possible to connect and contract financial services. Sicredi actively participates in working groups in response to the implementation of Open Finance in Brazil. \nclu— sive representing the front reLat\ve to credit cooperativism‘ within the group formed by representative entities and regulators of the National Financial System. Sicredi is fully integrated into the Open Finance implementation process with the aim of bringing the benefits of this new feature to members, Voluntana meme' 0 Sicredi has entered phase 1 of implementation, thus participating in the four stages of integration into the financial system open. Sicredi believes that Open Finance will bring benefits from greater competition, transparency and leveling of information between institutions financial institutions and could further strengthen credit cooperatives in Brazil, generating economic and social growth in communities, as the cooperative financial institution reinvests resources in the regions in which it operates and helps to develop the local economy. And, in addition, the member receives participation in the results of his cooperative, proportional to his financial operations. Reporter\oZUZW Technology brings members closer together and improves their lives In 2021, technology was a ally for the delivery of results to members. The use of artificial intelligence to process data and automate processes guaranteed agility in carrying out business. This meant a time-saving economy in operations and value generation. Sicredi das Culturas RS/MO invests more and more in its digital transformation, largely due to the institutionalization of processes and the delivery of autonomy to members. Within the digital transformation process, the cooperative highlighted also the opening of 2,879 accounts on the PF platform and 13,248 check deposits via Whatsapp. Another number that made the cooperative proud in Z02! was in relation to electronic and digital signatures, signature methods that go beyond writing, allowing a new experience for the member and contributing to agencies without paper, which strengthens the cooperative's commitment to LUIZ CARLOS SOARES Assomado from the PanambiCer1tro/RS Eu agency I always use the app because 'casually' this was one of the defenses we had now, r1os\dos0s. ELI I really like living, I don't want to catch a disease so I don't see it, so it was very good because I didn't need to leave the house to do anything and all of this, counting on all the attention from Srcredr's customer service JARBAS TADEU SPEROTTO Associate of the Santo Augusto/RS agency DEPOHWENTS Practically everything is paid at home, everything is sent directly by email to the accounting office, it is really easy to manage accounts by scheduling invoices. The DDA bulletin schedule gives you the chance not to miss anything and this gives you more time and more convenience to play the animals, because it is the owner's eye that fattens the cows. Lena the QR CODE and watch the testimony of LUV CARLOS JARBASTADEU “ARES SPEROTTO Read the QR CODE and subscribe to Rela(ionamento2Conﬁnga ADRIANE ARMANJE Agency Manager The proposal to implement digital signatures in soybean crop costing contracts was very well received by our associates. We had CLH accompany the associate in all the signatures, providing support and security to the process, which was practically concluded with just a signature. The members' joy in being part of this new format was clear, and when we finished the service we received this positive feedback. We also noticed the sense of belonging among members in relation to digital inclusion. “#I can’\ was a phrase that we heard almost daily within the agency, which also motivated the team, as we realized how much we are making a difference in the lives of those associated with digital transformation‘ E E’: cool to know Also, this reality of digital signature was present throughout our cooperative, which in 2021 totaled 18,627 documents with digital signature." VILMAR SCHWEDERHE Associate at Sicredi das Culturas RS/MC: DEPOii\/iE|\iTOS i\/luito Born to me from my son who's in a wheelchair, I don't need to travel, I do everything over the phone and it's really good for me, it avoids signing so many papers MARCIOANTONIO HERMANN Associate of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG For sure It's much more practical, you sign it once, you don't need to sign all the guides, back and forth, so once it's resolved, it's much more practical for sustainable development. Coronel Barrosi's agency in Rio Grande do Sul was the pilot of this action with the aim of carrying out costing subscriptions via the agency's tablet or even via the associate's own email address, everything being explained in a clear and transparent way by employees of the agency. An innovative, economically viable proposal that generates even more accessibility, given a growing scenario of technological advances. When talking about technology, it is also necessary to mention all the Channels that allow members more and more autonomy and freedom so that they can carry out their financial operations wherever they are with ease, security and practicality. Sicredi is available to its Zlih associates daily through digital channels Using the app and internet banking, you can, among other things, check your balance, pay bills, make investments and Pix' Now WhatsApp 51 3358-4770 facilitates communication with the help of the virtual attendant Theo and air+ da allows you to carry out operations such as depositing checks, request COSTEiOi services related to cards, consortium, credit, among others. Relatorioliﬂli Woop SiCredi:A digital account that invests in your region The Woop account has the face of millennials who are always with their cell phone on their Mac 2, they look for accessible financial solutions with a simple touch of the screen. For people easily connected to technology and who want to resolve their financial life directly via cell phone, independently. with an account with basic financial services. Woop Sicredi is also the ideal digital coma for people who think about the collective. that has purpose and social responsibility. In 2021, 1,150 new Woop accounts were opened at Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG. O Woop is completely digital, from opening an account to contracting our financial products and services, everything is done through the app. /-\here, members have the same right to participate, being able to go to Assemblies and make decisions as in any cooperative institution. What products and services are available on Woop Sicredi? o Current account; The virtual credit card; Savings with investment Paying the invoice via application in the region; with the liberation of Ilimit on time; O Payments on business days O Recharge of cell phones and applications; 6:30am to 10:30pm via app; o Salary portability; Transfers between Woop Sicredi, Sicredi _ _ I _ _ and other institutions accounts of up to R$ 15,000.00 per account and withdraw money up to R$1,000.00; your °°mp'a$ 9°' Cate-9°"as5 O TEDs on weekdays from 6:45 am to 4:45 pm; 0 F"°9'a'“a 0'9 'e°°”'Pe“S3S 9' 3“ Boomerang that gives discounts in stores O Depésito por ticket; from different segments; Personal credit with a limit of 0 Coop Space to accompany amounts up to R$ 5,000.00; and impacts of your cooperative in the region. International Visa debit and multiple cards (debit and credit subject to approval) with a maximum limit of R$ 10,000.00; yuoop .......................... -4 icredi ReLa(\onarnerwto2Conﬁanga Sustainability and economy With solar energy Choosing renewable energy sources is a way of cooperating with society. The member of the agency CoroneL Barros‘ Norberto Arno l\/1LJl— Len sought this claim and counted on our support for the installation of solar power panels in his residence. According to Ete, the 'investment was carried out thinking about energy saving and also the environment, and taking into account the current water crisis and understanding the importance of using renewable energy sources. difficulties mainly due to lack of rain in some regions from the country, we thought we could work a little. even with the energy of our own home. So we went after companies, created the project, calculated the average consumption of the residence and were about to install 15 fe tovoltaic panels. In a short time we arrived with the approved financing and 'xinstalling the network'' cut the associate, resident of the municipality of CoroneL Barros/RS. Read 0 QR CODE 9 attends NDRBERTD's testimony ARNO MULLER Reporter\oZUZW Sorwho Own home fulfilled In Ajuricaba/RS the dream of owning a home became a reality for two families. Diego Bonmman and Franciete Kowaleski acquired a house for themselves and their children, Teymr and CLara Alice, with the support of Sicredi das Cu1_tu ras RS/MG, According to them, a dream come true' “We sought with Sicredi to reaffirm this dream and we did very well answered, we sent us docurnerutos and everything went fine. We had been trying to buy our own house for seven years with conse gw'm0s", celebrates the couple. Rubem dos Santos and SiLvia Aquilta also left their rental in Lado and purchased a property. “We have been members of Sicredi for many years, so we approached the Ajuricaba agency and formed a deal. We decided to buy the house because we were paying rent, so we did the calculations and came to the conclusion that it would be better to choose to buy a house. It's cool because we're in a place that belongs to the people. It's a dream come true," they guarantee. Read the QR CODE and check out the video 0 dream come true for Cooperating families Investing in children's education is a priority for Rose Bertéo. Her daughter Fernanda Bertao is in the final stretch of her degree in f\/ Iedicina and the associate of the agency | Ju \’ Centro was looking for resources to ensure the completion of the course. Rose's initial goal was to achieve her goal, but when looking for Sicredi she found other alternatives for what she needed. Associate of the Mu agency? Center When I came to Sicredi I was listened to with great attention, they understood what I needed and they offered me much more interesting and viable solutions to ensure I graduated from MHA ﬁthar I got a credit with the guarantee of this property that I was going to sell initially This brought us tranquility and the guarantee that we will see her formation as we dreamed, without having to give up something. I felt very welcomed and Sxcredi was fundamer|talfor our family at this very important moment' DtPOH\/\ENTO 'es:ua:ev"E;a'adas PEOPLE ENGAGES Engaged People Sicredi's mission is to offer ﬁ ancial solutions to add income and contribute to improving quality of Life of members and the community. To fulfill this commitment, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MC: has employees who seek to stay connected to members to learn about their projects, objectives and needs. Employees are committed to making dreams come true and ensuring the prosperity of the cooperative system and society. Peopleengaged From people to people: we are Certiﬁed mm 0 PTW In September 2021' 0 Sicredi celebrated the certiﬁcation received by Great Place to Work (GPTW), a global consultancy, which also makes a ranking of the best companies to work for . A survey of data was carried out, as an assessment tool. Inside sxstema Sicredi 25,218 employees responded to this survey. contributing to their perception of work practices and environment. To obtain the GPTW Certiﬁcation seal, a minimum survey score of 70% in the Confidence Index is required. In Sxcredx, reaching an index of 88%. We are made of people for people. We are certified by GPTWA <9 Today this certification is present in more than 50 countries and serves as a yardstick for companies around the world to evaluate their organizational environments. “This achievement qualifies us with the GPTW Certiﬁcation seal for 12 months and also enables us to run for the GPTW Ranking of Best Companies to Work For 2022. But, in addition, this result demonstrates the engagement of our collaborators, the strength of our C-0 operativist essence, our solidity of almost 120 years of history and how much we are fulfilling the purpose of building, together. a more prosperous society", says the director Executive of Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG. Roque Enderle. Continuous Learning The work carried out by Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG in different aspects is done by different hands that make up the cooperative. And to increasingly improve this work, as well as valuing and empowering our employees to face the challenges of everyday life, in 2021 we will provide great opportunities for training, qualification and consequent professional and personal development. were the classes from Cinese 361 and #EuProtagonista. Designed for collaborators who work in various business areas and carried out by a specialized consultancy, Cinese 361 seeks to train professionals to apply the cooperative's purpose in the day-to-day lives of agencies and Cooperative Construction To think, reflect and build Together with the planning of the cooperative for the year 2022, Sicredi das Cuituras RS/MO held the first edition of "Inspirar" in November 2021. With the participation of administrative and tax advisors, as well as leaders who work in the agencies and ria Headquarters of the cooperative financial institution. action, purpose, breaking paradigms, leadership, among other topics that were addressed by speakers Thomas Eckschmidt Anderson Penha and Lia Mara Rossi. SICredidasCuiturasRS/MU Administrative Headquarters In the CDi'lti'OS' due to this year, subjects were virtually covered, such as di— ferenga eritre products and being— forces' mental modeio, communication techniques, among other topicsi All this for better understand the needs of associates, providing the best support and offering financial assistance appropriate to their time of need. In modules that addressed topics such as career, tools for development, individual ment, self-cognition, protagonism and leadership. #IProtagonist was carried out with the aim of supporting employees in developing skills and behavioral skills. Understanding what was given by Luiz Claudio Pinho and with a summary of the event through drawings made by illustrator Lima' After the moments of discussion and inspiration, the cooperative's leaders worked on the practical construction of actions, having as a guide— Love Sicredi’s purpose "Building together a more prosperous society" and the current scenario, as well as envisioning the future' the focus of this initiative is to prepare and support professionals to exercise leadership roles within their teams 9 at Cooperative Como um all. strategic map of the cooperative Supported by this Joint construction, Sicredi das Culturas RS/MC: establishes the paths it must follow and the actions to be carried out so that it can achieve its objectives and overcome challenges, considering the insertion of the cooperative in the economic, social and environmental scenarios. P e s s o a s E n g a | a d as —202w Q? S ' Managed Assets: FLS 3,140,191,709 Associates: 6_2,362 Credit Portfolio: E l R_S1,485,184,853 Resultaclos: 'M l R_S 52.921737 0 Depositog: D9 l R_$1,251,784,052 @ l E§a2iaZ:5,477.2o 3 Patrimémo Ll/quido: gs 32o.o99.771 Sicred\dasCulturasRS/MG 2019 57 947 2020 2021 2019 051322 359399 25 251410 2020 RS 1 04 9 522 2 " 2: 73.1 .05: 2019 RS 232.044.3613 2020 RS 370 ' 5'62 K' _ Redede ﬁiermﬂnwente Ajuricaba/RS Tetefene. (55) 3387-1114 / (55) 3387-1125 / (55)3387-1146 Rea da Matriz, 598 Center -Ajuncaba/R5 Augusta Pestana/RS Tetefone (55) 3334-11148 /(5S)3334-1240 / (55) 33344228 Rea CeL.Ant6n1e Scares de Barres. 1461, Auguste Pestana Centre/RS Bozano/RS Tetetene' (55) 3643-2089 / (55) 3543-2005 Frederke Ceccate Street S1Lv1e, 402, Center - Bezano/RS Chiapetta/R5 Tetetene' (55) 37814-1223 / ( 55) 3784-1671 Rua do Cerenel Raulde 0Live1ra, 610, Chiapetta Center/R5 Condor/RS Tetefene' (55) 3379-1300 / (55) ) 3333-9037 /(5S)3333-9191/ (55) 3333-9167 Irnigragé Street, 308, Center Coronet Bars/RS Coronal Bicaco/RS Tetefene. 990 Vargas Avenue, Coronet Bicaco/RS Guaxupé/MG Tetefene. (35) 3559-6600 Count Vane River Avenue. 542 - Guaxupé Center/MG liufcenter/RS Tetefone (55) 3331-7400 November 15th Street, 217. Center - |1uI'/RS liuflmigrants/RS Tetefene. (55) 3331-6650 Av. Coronet D1co, 650. Center - Hun’/RS |iuI’S§o Francisco/RS Tetefene. (55) 3331-8350 St. Francis Street. 335. S210 Geratdo -1iu1’/RS lawia/RS Phone. (55) 3318-1333 / (55) 3318-1 Rue Dr. Edemar Kruet, 37. Center - Jo1a/RS Monte Santa de Minas/MG Telephone. (35) 35914100 Av. Dr.Aristides Cunha, 284, Center - Monte Santo de Minas/MG Muzambinho/MG Telefene. (35) 3571-0900 Rue Aparec1'da.5Z - Centro Muzarnbinne/MG Nova Ramada/RS Telephone (55)333B-1011/(55)3338-1037 Rua Dary de March1,139, Center Neva Ramada/RS Panambi Centre/ RS Telephone (5S)3376-8500 Rua Barée do Rio Branco,11Z3. Center Panarnbi/RS Office Panambi Cotripal/RS Telephone (55)337S-0751 Avemda Pre51dente Kennedy.1969,Arce1r15 Panarnbi/RS Panambi S50 Jorge/RS Teletene' (55) 3375-9300 / (55) 3375-9349 Rea Para1'ba,1£15, Séelerge - Panarnbi/RS Passos/MG Telephone (35) 3529-0350 Aven1daAreuca. 525 - Center Passes/MG SantoAugusto/RS Teletene' (55) 3781-1616 / (55) 3781-3362 Rea Vndependénda, 249, Center SanteAugu5te/RS Séo Sebastiin do Paraiso/MG Telefene' (35) 3539-7600 Rua Pirnenta de Pédua.1464. Center Sée Sebastiée de Parafse/MG Sio Valério do Sul/RS Tetetene‘ (55) 3617-2207 Batduine Weller Avenue. 715. Center 5510 Valeno do Sut/RS 9 ReLat6r\u2UZW At Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG your investment yields more for you and also contributes to a more prosperous society! It is very easy to participate: Choose the investment and 0 1 value will be applied Indicate a Non-Profit Entity 2 Profitable to benefit Our cooperative will make a donation to the indicated entity: 0.40 /o 0.20 /o 0.10 /0 about new applications about new applications about new applications with a savings grace period of more than 181 days or more than 90 days Check the regulations and participate by 12/30/2022! www,sicredi.corn.br/Coop/Culturasrsmg/invistarIobern/ . -' "El El r. El -'r |-fl'.- ' . 2.5 Sicredi Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG ﬁg") sicredi.com.br/culturasrsmg Q 513358 4770 w Sicredi das Culturas RS/MG sicredidasculturasrsmg u sicredidasculturasrsmg Memento Sicredi e