CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE PROGRESSO SICREDI PROGRESSO PR/SP CNPJ no. 76.059.997/0001 -17 CALL NOTICE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The President of the Progresso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Progresso PR/SP, in use of the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the core delegates, which on this date total 49 (forty-nine), to meet in an EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on September 19, 2023, at 7:30 pm (nine thirty hours), in first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in second call, at 8:30 pm (twenty and thirty hours), with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 9:30 pm (twenty-one and thirty hours), with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held in a semi-presential format, transmitted from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Rua Treze de Abril, no. 2590, Vila Industrial, in this city, for all delegates, simultaneously, using the Pertencer Tool* accessed through the website http://sicredi.com.br/as sembleias, to deliberate on the following: AGENDA IN EXTRA ORDINARY REGIME 1. Broad and general reform and consolidation of the Cooperative's Bylaws, comprising, in particular, the following provisions: a. Art. 12 "caput" - change in the minimum training value of the share capital ; B. Art. 32 "caput" - change in the number of positions in the Executive Board; 2. Approval of the Executive Board’s Remuneration Policy. Toledo -PR, September 5, 20 23. Cirio Kunzler Chairman of the Board of Directors. OBSERVATIONS: 1. *Instructions for participating and voting in the videoconference on the date and time indicated: Instructions and the link to access the General Assembly will be made available to Delegates, via email or Whatsapp, accessible through a browser or smartphone application compatible with IOS and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action through audio, video and chat, in real time. To access, simply click on the link and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 2. The Assembly will be recorded electronically. 3. The draft Bylaws are available on the Cooperative's website, at sicrediprogresso.com.br.