Sicredi Progresso PR/SP Version September 19, 2023Summary CHAPTER I - THE NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI CHAPTER II - THE CORPORATE PURPOSE CHAPTER III - THE MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, ADMISSION CONDITIONS, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION CHAPTER IV - SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONSCHAPTER V - GENERAL MEETING: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND GENERAL ASSEMBLY EXTRAORDINARY CHAPTER VI - THE ELECTORAL PROCESS CHAPTER VII - ADMINISTRATION4 4 6 164 6 7 8 8 9 9 9 10 10 12 12 15 16 166Summary 27 27 28CHAPTER VIII - THE FISCAL COUNCIL CHAPTER IX - SETTING THE SOC YEAR IAL, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS CHAPTER INVESTIMENTO PROGRESSO - Sicredi Progresso PR/SP C CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, TERM OF DURATION AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1º The Cooperative of Credit, Savings and Investment Progresso - Sicredi Progresso PR/SP, established at the general meeting of August 30, 1981, originally called Cooperativa de Crédit o Agropecuário do Oeste Limitada, is a financial institution, society cooperative, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal venue at Rua Treze de Abril, 2590, Vila Industrial, CEP 85904 -000, in the city of Toledo , in the state of Parana; II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, limited to the following municipalities: Nova Santa Rosa, Ouro Verde do Oeste, São Pedro do I guaçu, Toledo and Tupãssi, in the State of Paraná, and Biritiba Mirim, Ferraz de Vasconcelos, Guararema, Itaquaquecetuba, Mogi das Cruzes, Poá, Salesópolis and Suzano, in the State of São Paulo. III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the States of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro - Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and other affiliates, Sicr edi - Credit System Cooperative, also governed by its regulations. §1 The Cooperative Credit System - Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo s Garantidores (S FG). §2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, on its own initiative or that of the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3º The affiliation of the Cooperative, on its initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I - the majority of its members, to become independent; II - of the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of members, to join another central credit cooperative. 5 § 4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5 The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sic redi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - with systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of Grow and Belong programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and /or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership of the Center automatically means solidarity of the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of Cooperative members or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 8 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 10. The liability provided for in the previous paragraph may only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative in which they are associated with the beneficiaries of the resources and the respective Central. § 11. The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own standards, being able to examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities , and keep it at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward it to it, if there are serious or urgent reasons the determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions allocated to Sicredi Fundos Garantidore s funds, in accordance with its own regulations, make up the system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. To Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as to the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, Powers of representation are granted, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. 6 § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and investment clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sic redi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, in compliance with internal regulations and current legislation. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF DISMISSAL Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 May be Cooperative members are people who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I - individuals who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; 7 IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with one of its associates, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; § 1 The number of members, except technical impossibility of service, it is unlimited as to the maximum, which cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, in addition to the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2 of art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or others that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of sections I V and V of art. 5th, contractual relationships are considered links, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; 8 II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use- whether operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to the statutes and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or normative-statutory infraction committed by an associate; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general assembly; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII - resign from the Cooperative when it suits him. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the operative and the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, until the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, 9 with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal took place are approved by the general assembly. § 1º The responsibility of the associates, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising the use of liquidity lines. § 3º In an unlawful manner, with its assets personnel, members who, through intentional or negligent action or omission, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or to the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in their opinion, disqualify the infraction or the act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and will communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating it from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the communication of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect on the first general meeting to be held. 10 § 5º When any advisor or director falls foul of the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him/her. , as the case may be, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days present your reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as per the case. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs due to: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. § 1 The amendment d the conditions for subsequent admission to membership will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. Share capital is unlimited as to maximum and variable according to the number of subscribed quotas, prevailing, as a minimum, the value of R$ 2,500,000.00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in current currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 Upon joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. § 3 The request for reinstatement of the member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from the staff social security will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete its readmission. § 4º The general assembly, upon proposal of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, and to the detriment of voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, associates subscribe and pay in new shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. 11 § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, monthly subscription and payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through deduction from payroll or debit into account. deposits. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable unless members, and their subscription, completion, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in their respective electronic record, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total shares. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º The quotas -parts of capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general meeting, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment in installments permitted. payment by the Cooperative, to begin within the same period, within up to 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and the compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are placed on available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 109 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; It is III - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining their membership status, with the minimum membership fees established in § 2 of this article. § 14. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit a request to the Board of Directors to withdraw up to 50% of their share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, the member may redeem up to 50% of the value of the share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with a minimum of shares. -parties established in § 2 of this article. § 15. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit to the Board of Directors a request for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. 12 § 16. The Board of Directors may relax the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by members, including for the purpose of handling cases fortuitous events, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of member with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 17. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 18. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he/she left the membership. In the event that there remains a debt balance resulting from some obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 19. The return referred to in §§ 1 3, 14, 15 and 16 If approved by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, it will be at the discretion of this body, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its compliance with all limits assets required by current legislation, and payment in installments by the Cooperative is also permitted. § 20. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and They cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 21. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective quotas - shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the quotas - shares of capital, maintaining your membership status with a minimum of membership fees established in § 2 of this article. § 22. The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, Within the limits of the law and these Statutes, it will make any and all decisions in the interest of the Society, considering that the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if they are absent or disagree. § 1 Accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of members of the administrative and supervisory councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously considered in core assemblies. § 2º The other matters subject to the agenda of the general meeting may be decided directly in Delegates' Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. 13 § 3º When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform the members later. § 4 The coordination of core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if these are not possible, by whomever indicate. § 5 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, by means of a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in a publicly accessible repository unrestricted on the internet. § 1º The call it may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Membership" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in case of holding remote assembly, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4th Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, associates, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, and beds in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. 14 § 2º The term of office of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, the Mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the nucleus it represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies for delegates among the nuclei will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 60 (sixty) nuclei, observing its own regulations; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elective positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in normative. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to install the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates - effective and substitutes - will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general assemblies will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in the in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary for the work. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or other member chosen at the time, composing the Board of the main parties interested in the call. 15 Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his deputy or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except as regards matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for whose validity the votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates present are required. Single paragraph. The deliberations and other substantial events at the assemblies will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general assembly may be suspended, allowing continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum, both at the opening and at ( s) restart(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the restart of the session does not make it possible to meet the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Meeting Art. 24. The ordinary general meeting will be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies , accompanied by the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit report, comprising: a) management report; B) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of fees, ballots presence and bonuses of Board members; V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board, at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those with exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. 16 Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, and will be conducted by an Electoral Commission set up specifically for this purpose, each request, by deliberation of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same body. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegial deliberation body, composed of individual members, with up to 9 (nine) advisors, including a President and a Vice - President, constituting basic conditions for the application and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the councils administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - when taking office in the position for which he/she was elected, not be a spouse or partner, nor possess, kinship up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administrative and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not be, simultaneously, an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that are part of Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; 17 IV - not have held or are holding a party political position or function in the last year civil; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which he is a controller or administrator, due to pending issues relating to protest of securities, legal charges, issuing bad checks, defaulting on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or having a negative record in any database; VIII - not have, through intent or negligence, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX - have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperativ a in the last two social exercises (being an active member) and having participated in at least 2 (two) core assemblies in the last 3 (three) years; X - have participated, in the immediately preceding exercise, or participate in the courses and other events of training and recycling programmed by the system, according to the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to the attendance to all other events directed to the Conselheiros no period of his mandate, up to 1 (one) year after the possession; XI - have time availability to fully comply with statutory and legal responsibilities, and accumulation with another position or function (elective or not) that requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative is prohibited; XII - be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XIII - serve others requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XIV - do not expose negatively, or to directly or indirectly, the image of any entities of SICREDI, its statutory members or in preached, due to the position, by any means, verbal or written, or any marks of ownership of entities that are part of Sicredi; XV - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVI - not being habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is the majority shareholder or administrator, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months; § 1 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in item VII, considering the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. 18 § 3º The mandate will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, noting that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing for these, since the election, the full monitoring of the remaining participation of those who succeeded. § 4 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the counselors, from among them, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position(s), confirming or not the designated one(s), and the person(s) elected will serve the remainder of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), with the exception of the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected in up to 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 4 (four) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; V - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. VI - licenses, except for health treatment, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; a) Upon leave for health treatment, for the President, Vice-President and members of the Executive Board, the continued payment of fees is ensured in addition to social security and the maintenance of benefits in force during the period of leave until 24 months, which may be extended at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a position party politician, must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood to be: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; 19 II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", including the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, monthly in an ordinary manner, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President, the majority of the Board itself, or, even, by request the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its members present components, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner (a ) or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which do not may contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in this statute; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, aimed at financing the activities of associates, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of annual remuneration on capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; 20 IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the Company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and determine the application of applicable penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting the purposes complementary or accessory, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV - authorize the alteration of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, closure, transfer or change of address of the other dependencies or branches of the cooperative, within or outside the municipality headquarters, in the terms current legislation; XV - fulfill and do comply with this Statute, legislation and Sicredi’s internal regulations; XVI - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing social capital by the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each, with a record of the relevant responsibilities in the minutes. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - monitoring and supervising the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable rules, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of membership organization, development and management programs Sicredi, in order to guarantee business continuity and the formation of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, observing systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, to the Board of Directors for consideration, monitoring their implementation; 21 VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - represent institutionally the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever they indicate; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to members on the Cooperative's premises, aiming to ensure satisfaction and quality of services provided to members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, one being an Executive Director and a Director of Operations, and a maximum of 4 (four) Directors, one Director Executive, an Operations Director and two Business Directors. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as resolved by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulations. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, removed by the Board of Directors. § 4 The inauguration of the elected person(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or out of court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of item VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: 22 I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, local authorities and mixed-economy companies; II - in the granting of documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and X III to XVI, as well as that of § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V – meet complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. It is the responsibility of the Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - manage the Cooperative operationally, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, observing the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, in compliance with the provisions of these Statutes; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets classified as current assets of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare the strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; 23 VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, informing about the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities related to the Cooperative's ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Administration and Fiscal Councils, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicred i's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the area of ​​operation of the company Cooperative; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Co operative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) respond to performance management and monitoring of the Cooperative's results, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitor and intervene in service units, according to the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on standards and systemic regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; 24 b) be responsible for internal control activities, compliance and risks, as well as taking steps in the supervision process and ensuring compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) be responsible for managing performance and monitoring the results of service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the annual planning of the service Cooperative; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its requirements; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1º It is prohibited for any of the members of the Executive Board to practice acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, the granting of guarantees, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of this Statute Social, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will indicate the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the terms of office of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Councilors of Administration and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause damage to the Company, will respond directly with their own assets for compensation. of the damage. 25 § 2º A Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board of Directors and Directors whose actions or omissions, in accordance with paragraph above, have as a consequence any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, consisting of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all associated with natural persons, elected by the general assembly, observing the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions , the provisions of art. 27, items I to X VI, of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires a complete slate(s), independent and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2 The term of office will be 02 (two) years. § 3 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 4 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other events Substantial meetings will be recorded in the minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to fill them appropriately, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2º Applies to the Council Tax the vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 7, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Among others Attributions arising from legislation, this Statute and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; 26 II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents under custody; III - evaluate the policy of loans and monitor their granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the administration accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the norms on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to provide advice on internal and external auditors to provide information necessary to perform their functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central's auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official norms and those of the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to the group of individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Sicredi ; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of their work, alerting them to any irregularities found and, in the absence of measures by the latter, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - convene a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons arise. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which arises from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the latter's inertia or reluctance, in a timely manner complaint to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts 1 (one) year, ending on 31 from December . Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surpluses determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: 27 I - 70% (seventy percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and meet the development of the Cooperative; II - 5% (five percent), at least, for the Technical, Educational and Social (FATES), aimed at providing assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in its area of ​​action; III - recomposition of resources from the guarantee funds, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1 Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the required/stipulated asset structure, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, subject to the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares. members' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2º Donations without specific destination; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, through of surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER willing to ensure their continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - by stopping their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with legal and own regulations. CHAPTER 28 CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50 . The deadlines set out in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic documents, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data, will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when appropriate, the social bodies. September 19, 2023. Cirio Kunzler President Elton Alceu Endler Vice-president at sicredi.com.br