BYLAWS OF ARTICLE BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE VANGUARDA SICREDI VANGUARDA PR/SP/RJ CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of Action and Term of Duration Art. 1 The Vanguarda Sicredi Vanguarda PR/SP/RJ Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative, established at the general meeting of November 17, 1983, is a financial institution, society cooperative, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction at Rua Paraguai, 1407, Centro, Cep: 85884-000, in this State of Paraná; II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, limited to the municipalities: In the State of Paraná: Cascavel, Catanduvas, Céu Azul, Diamante do Oeste, Foz do Iguaçu, Itaipulândia, Lindoeste, Matelândia, Medianeira, Missal , Ramilândia, Santa Helena, Santa Tereza do Oeste, Santa Terezinha de Itaipu, São Miguel do Iguaçu, Serranópolis do Iguaçu and Vera Cruz do Oeste. In the State of São Paulo: Aparecida, Arapeí, Areias, Arujá, Bananal, Caçapava, Cachoeira Paulista, Campos do Jordão, Canas, Caraguatatuba, Cruzeiro, Cunha, Guaratinguetá, Guarulhos, Igaratá, Ilhabela, Jacareí, Jambeira, Lagoinha, Lavrinhas, Lorena , Monteiro Lobato, Natividade da Serra, Paraibuna, Pindamonhangaba, Piquete, Potim, Queluz, Redenção da Serra, Roseira, Santa Branca, Santa Isabel, Santo Antônio do Pinhal, São Bento do Sapucaí, São José do Barreiro, São José dos Campos, São Luiz do Paraitinga, São Sebastião, Silveiras, Taubaté, Tremembé and Ubatuba. In the State of Rio de Janeiro: Angra dos Reis, Barra do Piraí, Barra Mansa, Engenheiro Paulo de Frontin, Itatiaia, Mendes, Miguel Pereira, Paracambi, Parati, Paty do Alferes, Pinheiral, Piraí, Porto Real, Quatis, Resende, Rio Claro, Valença, Vassouras and Volta Redonda. III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2 The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the States of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro - Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, hereinafter referred to as the Cooperative Credit System , also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Sicredi Cooperative Credit System or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when it falls within the limits operational requirements established by current legislation. § 3 Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I- the majority of its members, to become independent; II - the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. §4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and manifestation of the respective Center in all steps of the procedure. § 5º The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer programs and Belonging, in accordance with specific regulations; II - limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with internal standards defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to being subject to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7 The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of a agreement, aiming to assist it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - at obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 9º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 8º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 10 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 11º The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also the Sicredi's own standards, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep it at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward it to it, if there are serious or urgent reasons the determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12º The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8º and 9º of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to Sicredi Fundos funds Guarantors, in accordance with their own regulations, form a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13º Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 14 The expression "legislation" comprises laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, which have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as making use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, observing internal regulations and current legislation. CHAPTER III MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established herein and are: I - individuals who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; II - people legal entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2 To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose admission, pay the number of quotas -minimum parts provided for in §2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2º of the art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or that conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of incompatible values with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual product obligations and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 Parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member may also be members, as long as they demonstrate the link with the member of the Cooperative. § 5 For the purposes of the provisions of sections IV and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associations and kinship. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, subject to the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to statutory and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity found in the management of the Society or regulatory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information about the financial statements of the exercise to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, the elimination or exclusion of the member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, in accordance with the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general assembly. . § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º following. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising from use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause damage material or moral to the Cooperative. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10 The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must appear in its records, due to: I - violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to comply punctually the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - carrying out acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of of harming the Cooperative. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in their opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and inform the member of its decision, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in the form of this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may file an appeal within a period of 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of elimination, subject to art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5º When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of the inciso III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from his duties, while the period continues. investigation, informing you of the verifications carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days you can present your reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 No. In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Board of Directors Executive. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3º, dest and Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for entry or permanence in the association. Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 2,500,000.00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. § 3 The request for re-entry of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from the membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete your readmission. § 4º The general assembly, upon proposal of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, the members subscribe and pay new shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, subscription and monthly payments will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective register electronic, noting that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total shares. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deducting losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10º The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting in the same term, up to 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, taking into account the conditions financial and patrimonial assets of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11º The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, systemic indications were respected. § 12º The Share Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10º of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the dismissal occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all the patrimonial limits required by the current legislation. § 13 The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 5 (five) years or retires due to disability, may, exceptionally , submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining its status as an associate, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 14 The member, an individual, who achieves aged 50 (fifty) years and, cumulatively, have been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 25 (twenty-five) years, may submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw up to 80% (eighty percent) of its share capital, maintaining its membership status, especially the provisions of § 2 of this article. § 15 The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit to the Board of Directors request to withdraw up to 70% (seventy percent) of its share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, the member may redeem up to 50% (fifty percent) of the value of the share capital, maintaining their member status, with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article . § 16 In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their condition membership, with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 17 The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by associates more flexible, including for the purpose of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum established shares. in § 2 of this article. § 18 In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of your share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 19º If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his dismissal from membership. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 20º. The return referred to in §§ 1, 3, 14, 15, 16 and 17, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be at the discretion of this body, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative , respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with installments of payment by the Cooperative also being permitted. § 21º The shares of capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 22º If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the cooperative may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with its respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital shares, maintaining its membership status with the minimum number of shares. established in § 2 of this article. § 23º The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surpluses to be paid not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions on interest of the Society, and the deliberations bind everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. § 1 The rendering of accounts for the closure of the exercise, the allocation of results and the election of members of the administrative and fiscal councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously considered in core assemblies. § 2 The other matters covered by the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly at the General Meetings, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3º When the matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform members later. § 4 The coordination of core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if this is not possible, by whoever he indicates. §5 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General assemblies will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request not responded to within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, hypothesis in which At least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the mode of access to the means of communication made available to participation of members, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be the following: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend the conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If you are elected to office statutory or contracted as an employee of the Cooperative, must simultaneously resign from the position of delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the delegate's vote at general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of delegate vacancies among the nuclei will be carried out based on the specific regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 180 (one hundred and eighty) centers, observing its own regulations; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One will be elected effective delegate and at least one alternate delegate, the most voted, respectively, among members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and terms procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, absent effective and substitute delegates will lose their mandates, establishing themselves, immediately, an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general assemblies will be chaired by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to secretariat the work. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or other associate chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Nucleus in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Nucleus will be represented by his alternate or other appointed associate, as applicable. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except regarding matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which votes of 2/ 3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by however many others wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum , as well as in the opening and in the restart(s) (s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not make it possible to comply with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The ordinary general assembly will be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned on the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit report, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, installments for statutory funds; III - election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixing, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses for the members of the Councils; V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those under the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperat iva. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same board. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors Administration, collegiate deliberation body, composed of individual members, with a minimum of 12 (twelve) counselors and a maximum of 14 (fourteen) counselors, including a President and a Vice-President, with the option of electing a 2nd Vice President , constituting basic conditions for the application and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - when taking office in the position for which he/she was elected, not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council and the Executive Board; III - not be, simultaneously, employed or administrator or hold interest in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that are part of Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last two (2) financial years; V - meet the professional qualification required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the activities are inherent; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have registration negative in any database; VIII - not have, through intent or negligence, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX - have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) nucleus assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated, in the immediately previous exercise, or participate in courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of their mandate, up to the deadline of 1 (one ) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for full compliance with statutory and legal incumbers, being prohibited accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative; XII - be performing the role of effective Core Coordinator, of the Belonging to the Cooperative Program where you are a member for at least 2 (two) years, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative in the last 4 (four) years; XIII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVI - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by the entities that make up Sicredi; XV - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVI - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he is a managing partner, considered habitual the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months; § 1 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will counselors and directors who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during their term of office or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, given that the elect will remain in office until the inauguration of the successors, allowing them, from the election, to fully monitor the remaining participation of the successors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by a counselor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position. position(s), whether or not the designated person(s) is confirmed, and the elected person(s) (s) will serve the remaining period of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. If the number of Council members is reduced to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to appear, without prior justification, at 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 3 (three) alternating meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; V - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. VI - licenses, except for health treatment, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; a) Upon leave for health treatment, for President, Vice-President and members of the Executive Board, the continued payment of medical fees is ensured. in a complementary way to social security and the maintenance of current benefits during the period of leave of up to 24 months, which may be extended at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty for vacancy of the position. § 9º For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood as: I - Elective position - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic) , in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of a party executive: people who, affiliated with a given party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. In general they are elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated post to those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets monthly in an ordinary manner, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the call of its President, the majority of the Board itself, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Collegiate and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Collegiate must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a straight line or collateral, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by him; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general assembly a proposal for donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate allegations of infractions committed in the context of sociability, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of the appropriate penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, in compliance with complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and in compliance with current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines about; XIV - authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, closing, transferring or changing the address of other facilities or branches of the Cooperative, within or outside the host municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XVI - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVII-choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for the attracting new members and/or increasing social capital by the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing the share capital of the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until further deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I monitor and supervise the activities of the Cooperative, including regarding compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, systemic guidelines observed; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan to the Board of Directors for consideration, as well as budgetary proposals, monitoring their implementation; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to others documents and information that is required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special powers of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, being able to be replaced by whoever indicates; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to the members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his/her leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the company, composed of at least 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director and a maximum of 5 (five) Directors, an Executive Director, an Operations Director and up to three Directors of Business § 1 The Officers will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Officers, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the position not occupied will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, agencies and mixed-capital companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and XIII to XVI as well as § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V meet complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board is responsible, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - operationally manage the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and corporate guidelines and strategies from Sicredi; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective agreements, assigning and pledging or renouncing rights, as well as monitoring the economic and financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Mandate instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a period of time determined, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, observing the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution monthly, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for legislation and normatives Sicredi interns; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities inherent to the Cooperative’s ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for liquidation or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for performance management and monitoring the Cooperative's results, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) responsible for performance management and monitoring of results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory bodies and inspectors. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in this Statute. Social. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within his competence, and especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint a manager interim executive to carry out duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, determine a loss to the Company, they will respond directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the form of the previous paragraph, have as a consequence any of the results therein referred to. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) substitute, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing if, regarding the conditions and requirements for the candidacy and exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVI of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires a ticket (s) complete, independent (s) and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2 The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is a managing partner, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months. § 3 The term of office will be 2 (two) years. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in-person, remotely, or in-person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting for the appropriate completed within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 7, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the appointment, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Among other duties arising from the legislation, this Statute and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over the assets, operations with associates, services and the actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial movements, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the norms on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting opinion to the general meeting, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of its functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central's auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - verify compliance, by the administration of the Cooperative, the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all individual cooperatives and respective centers that are members of Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, warning about the irregularities found and, in the absence of action on the part of the latter, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general meeting, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which arises from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and on inertia or reluctance to report it to the general assembly in a timely manner. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year has duration of 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 60% (sixty percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and meet development of the Cooperative; II 05% (five percent), at least, for the Fund Technical, Educational and Social Assistance (FATES), aimed at providing assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in its area of ​​action; III 01% (one percent), for the Social Fund, intended to meet social actions of collective interest, contributing to the social development of communities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate convenient, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares - shares of the associates' capital or allocated additionally to the own reserve fund. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining the mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the formula calculation established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER I - when the general assembly so decides, as long as 20 (twenty) members, at least, are not willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - by the stoppage of its normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the start day and including the end day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action deal with acts of direct interest to members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, through authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposition of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when appropriate, the social bodies. __________________________ Aldo Dagostim __________________________ Ivanir Antonio Reginatto President Vice President