I Annual Report Sicredi Vanguarda PR,/SP/R1 E! L’!!! i Says a prcuérhru ontign qup S? You want to have spent a year. cultwe grdos P0: (192, (umve cm/ores. But to have for a long time' cultwc gents In the cmdamos of the people WHO' grow r10 nassa term Until (reach a ham mars espcradu :1 gramule (0UlPrf(I (ms sunlms And the nnos. sdmmpmunm people who cultivate people, grow. Sacred: Where 0 SH; ammum yields? a world r'r'eH)O" A happy and prosperous 2023! q: Sicredi Annual Edition Free Distribution 1 Sltfedi avant-garde, thinking about sswlmbﬂldﬁ, printed the report on Markatto Stile Naturale paper for the cover. It's a pope! produced with 1096 recycled cefulose 9 with ECF cellulose. .—-’ . come from reforested trees‘ On the pages of the core we use the pope! pdlen. which favors the 'F' reading because it is not completely dull, it is produced 'with fewer chemical processes. Furthermore, we also use glue to assemble the material. , R 6'11) 80111625 .. 20 Tea Poupedl .. 68 I Editorial Board: Editorial Production: 52 Aldo Dagostim -' Adcmlf R0000 Gen'.-Mia dc Marketing ' Antonio Clanndo Sobrmho Rodngo Paulo Vendr.1n\e " lur. (mum Dvduvl \_ Assessoria dc Comunicacio e Marketing Giawanrm Cmmo SPIRJ " Mayan Kopccslu » PR Inaugura ' s .. 26 ,,m,,,,p,,,,,,, Mm, olrnauata Rﬁsponasdvet' “.,,,mm5,] (.“,u u mm' min ores crnav (I pointing the camera DRY 9197/PR .. from my cell phone to the \ QR CODES dasparlfueu . - _ ' no dt- corn.-r two D'agramaca°' paqmos Saammofir @ Pablo Fcucvm Lnma ' Rvvlnn F(-rrmta lmm ' President's Message rn 2021 cnccrrci to "Prcsidcnh Message:-" of the annual rclatory wishing that 0 arm dc 2022 fovo do muitn 7. Udﬂ. p.17 oospcrnnca for qut' can omot'. szupnrnr or. novor. dnmfio-'. that they are porvvr, remaining ao side of assocuado. And asslm fizz-mos! Dr:poi'. dc: p. 1r.€.unno'. p um.) p.1ndemia munrli provide infoliIn\mm': p.1rer,re nindn dr.-ixm r.)r.tro5- . we arrived in 2022 with Numcros dcsahos. Our only certainty was that after everything, we would rather follow the same path with everything. air. diﬁruldadrsf. impo‘.I.1r.p<‘-In Covi<I19. The C.00p0lMivi".n\() no. _ sins dr-r .0 principle how much .1 life (- mo:-better when :1 g¢=ntc- 1.12 together. when we unite nos-so (orcu num same purpose, building a more prosperous society In Sicrcdu, :1 we have been doing this for 120 years. and we have to admit it, not 6 pr.) anyone. We are an institution finance-ira (one 0 (committed to the communities where we work. We created a new memo only for our associates. $ pro;e!os c- 0 total value invested for dc- RS1.345'420.2S\ Our main program dc rt.-sponsabulidudc -,ocI.I|. 0 Program A Unuino Fa: u Vxda chcqou cm onto new municipalities taking cooperative education for children and adolescents, involving the entire ('e‘.C0|.). fnmﬂia «'- romunid.1dr- rm ‘.0 projc-ms‘ Alrim dir o. alsofinx yr-.1|iI.m1o‘. an r-will with or. profcssorcs who dcscnvolvc-ram projects during the zone forum -470 in total, the Summit Educacéo brought a pal:-mm of ncolhinmmo with prof:-scar M x Hac-ringer. Our core agreement took place at the beginning of the year online. still due to p.1ndomi.1, with .1 p.1rticip.1r,.io dr:m.1i.=. do 7,200 .1=.r.oci.1dos. cont-cmdos. A<.s.0n\l)lr.>ia Gr .1] Ordimiria also atontcccu dc formn owlunc scmiprscncial c sumulténca. with the participation of coordinators at Modmnr-i JPR r- om Ap:ncci.z/SP. We continued our expansion process and opened 10 new branches. also reinaugurates» rno-. others sew. ndupting-0:. for the new modclo c rot of the Sicrc i murder. prczando -scmprc pr. it according to accessibility and it wasn't just the tax agencies that got a new look, Sicrcdi PRO — our aqi-ncia d:gita|,l.1vnb(-m got a new .)mbi(-nte dcmro do Sc-do A(ln\inistr.)twa. On the verge of ma (er our cooperative essence, we held the first Proposito Summit, cvunto-; with all the n05505 colnborzldorc-5 cm quc dcbntcmos over the no-.50 dc ncqocros module C 0 associated JO service increasingly consultative c personal. . Here at Vanguarda we perform only ncstc year. 214 aqocs. with 3 participation of 246 QUUP volunteers impacted the most (1910 thousand people Tnmbf-nu rnolilanxos maif. umn odicﬁo do cavr-mo Involved. one thousand people per woman. 9 par.) women. that voice. in addition to the cvcnto carried out in Cascavcl in Parané with the presence of 1,500 mulberes. We were also at $30 in Losé dos Campos./SP and we counted (with the presence of 1.2 women, this proves it). present:-:. in our cooperative. A5 ohms. do -1055.1 nova .<.r-do .1dminir.tr.niv.1 0-ztﬁo .1 form vapor, c .1 cad.) din vr,-mor. ¢*r.‘.the new one being concretized. Nossds hnhaz. dc crednlo. consortiums. poupuncu. scgurosr 1: all no-5505 products L‘ scrvicos continued to make a difference in the lives of members. Some shared with us their shame about the rclatdrio, but you also want to tell us your story with Sicrcdi. look for our agency managers, they will support you and give you recognition to the commoncaczio. For C550 new iIl10.d(.'SL'j0 quc our assocwdos c sun-_;9umx1ia-. cstujam coda vcz mans proxlmoz; da genre. rcalizing your dreams with our support. Dose-jo that we have salute and continue with c5pur;mca L' working for days coda vcz "“:|h°rL'S\ Um cxcvlcnlc 2023 .1 you sun Iarnﬂm. Aug, K“? (Wu Pu;-such:-um Sucu:-du Vangunrd.1 PR,v'SP,“RJ P[F@zc~:2m Z we are Sicredi The first cooperative financial ivvstiluigao in Brazil Our business model builds a chain The value that the Board of Directors receives from the Tax benefits the member, the cooperative and the local community. <3 Presence of the 'Cooperative Board of Directors consgum Fiscal Management 2019-2022 Management 2021-2022 Prubdonhoz Aldo Dogostim ﬁotlvos Deputy wesidenu: lvanir Antonio Reginatto 5'“ 79955 5d'''°'' Wm?' lldo José Bedanda Counselors demlmlnlstrnpdo Sor lﬂorozinha Manolo Antonio Magyain Carlito Philippson supplgnesz Fabriao Six w.-mm Ademir Carlos Noro lnécio Pertnm Arian Assumpglo Coreogo Jandlr Sdsmmm Gerson Aurlnel Schmiu Louto Bntfwltot Mil Cad“ Hm Atuagio Rogaonal Mania PIAti Bordignon “""“’"”"”" and fernic fernando: Gdmorbes Valentino Bivolino Rosso . ! GERENRES de AGéncia Ldamlr Roma hats Carlos Ocluil Anlndo Clwindo Soorlnho Fernando Tbtmo Plvin _ 3 _ 8 6 A m-u-en:-n.m« or-rsxu-Mgomx or-mm: ugcnzon s.gu-n-n-on-u sruu pron-‘DC-O95 for p'—on)oC-op; p,-on1c(-O95 for administrative managers area managers business managers U0 ADIOS 00 COOPQIIAHVISMO Cooperativism: 120 cmos from Sicredi In 2022, 0 Sicmd: C()I11p|i?l()u 120 .'nm-'. Hr hiszmm Umn Jnnmda quc I:-st:-v-3 untnmamcmc (oncr.ta(Ia COP} U'. [)I|f1f1[H()9 H0 I.',f)O[J€'f3' |\'l'\.H\0, g('u:m(lo valm ac»:.;o:15(»(mdQs v: commondndr.-S or~(ic- cs.t.1mr)5 |)n:'5c~n(0~;. Our origin happened with .1 foundation (1st Coopcrativa in the Credit from Brasol, in 1902, by the Jesuit priest Theodor Amstad and a group of immigrants;-5 alt;-mécs, pc;-qua.-nos owners and rural workers of Nova Pctrépolis, in Rio Grande do Sul. Timeline Conhcca some hnstoncos facts rvlevanles (Id l'.()!~.'~.d hIs.t(')r|a. 1902 1964 Run-m :31"- a.» S -.n ma CA)l\' .ll".l'(-'(I L|.1|Jv:4'I1xrA u:-c-nc<.\'.vv.1 Fmmuuut. uh-1 rm'!-1: N.num.\ x do nun-a _ 'w 1',-RR. $ 49 sun: 1 |.-uh '.'. 4'14; <., .., p., m. '.. \-,' 1. VI,‘ ‘ n y. 1988 Nova (Lm'.HK\u(\v:» In (I1'V.Il- Ixl. .vv M' (I( hruu ' ' 4 “ Ail-'guru' 1.)' 4 '. 'u ¢.v..v. ,._-mmu .1.»-, '..m,'. “ xv.vv~ 14'~:': Vm'u' um. V!' wwvy. Lyn'! . m:.»'u ,m,.'y'. Hum “..,.wt.. 'w. '\n'Hx' Vn '| HI Tlwmim Am-atnrl um-;(x-u 11.1 Sm(n). , ('TH 1351 Dc:Gdr:1m.'cn1, Hr' dcchcnu .1 .1tnwrl.'IrIu=r. Cr:mnmmrm~:I\.1 Alr-m.1:1h.1, |ug|. 'I1L'rmL'H<)|.'m(I.I, {uprcndCn(lr.> -,olJr(_- .5 um)«:vr:§uII(IJ A1513 [l((')L"', . » r,001)cr.'IIc'/.1'; para 0dt-<.t2nvo|v|mm1tz)(ios tmhal!m(i0ro<. Iocms tmNov.1Pctropo!us.(RSJ,opntlre so umu J 20 zu5~;ocu;:do:. premises C, Together. u- . Iucamm cm pratua 01):“: './I330 Tomorrow [mm A (I)l)'m1HJ(,d()('l' um fuluvunwllmr E|(-s~(iA.:mmumfima umomprc-n:' u(Im1._'nt:» L'U()pL'1{IIl»/C) quc m;.p1r0u L: (rI.')CJD (i('H1lJ|Li'u(JU1rr!'1 (rX|II(d'3 (IP (F\'(1|'() mraluc ;)a:<,., aic-Inrl.1pnme_~nra Cc:-ntml rr~unm(!n CFvCI['| o'-TJYKJRW, Iundn Hflfi [)!lH'.L'XI':|3 dt:c.)d..1:5 to 20th Annual Two. 1no€..0n10(lr.-lofm Ic-vaclm .1<Imntr-, mtg)»:-rm: 0:: rt.::<.af10~:. qw: surquam nu LU!ItI;"(tObl£t'3r1C|V(J, prospcrou L' SL'lH(JdCII1|ZOU Du campu dwgu-_y .15 utlmh,-5., Ivlaxmmclu .a[rn\. w,'-5. (Io-;. It-m;)0S 0 pn::posuto (Ix: Jgrrggnr Hgudu pol l||L'lU dc ll\VL“;l||HL'(l[U' _x 4: rccuraoa cornpavlllhmiuz, com Igu.ald.-H14' (1l'|).-lllI(l[)«l(\l('I(' !)('l1Ij'f1CIO'_'- .1 ( Odo; 0:. nascncando'; I: prmnocﬁzcx (in qu;olx(I.'I(1(« no x/«(La OS PIONE/ROS DE ROCHDALE 0 modcmo cooperatlvusmo emerged in the 19th century, in England, with a group of workers who sought a better life and collective prosperity, within a context of advancement of the Industrial Revolution in the country. urban, such as hunger, poverty, long working hours and children's work Frame 3 difficulty they faced in purchasing men and women. of quality and at set prices. In 1844, 28 weavers and other artisans gathered together and made They gave the Socncdadc dos Probes Pioneers (le Rochdale (Rodwdale Ouutable Pnoneers Sow:-ty L-muted). Together, (naram ullld altevnalwa uue, through cooperation and joint efforts, provided a more efficient and social model. of the members continued (with an Iibm, an uncial investment that continued to open the doors of a cooperative warehouse, creating a black space totally outside the standards of the time without employees and platforms, where responsibilities and results were in doubt equally. The Rochdaie paonenros mark the husténa of Cooperativusmo DO! They must understand that 5&0 values ​​and principles are necessary for a venture to grow and maintain its purpose over the years. generating value for everyone involved President of Van uarda assumes the role and Regional Coordinator of Cooperatives Sicredi Aldo Dagostim served as representative of five cooperatives from re 1'50 before Central Sicredi P /SP/R! 0 president of Sktedi Vanguatda, Aldo Dagostim. assumed the position of Cootdenadot of the Administrative Unit II. This Unit comprises gray coopemIi« was da Cenlral Sacred‘: PR/SP/RJ. They are: Sicredi Vanguarda PR/SPrRJ, Sicredi-Pvogvesso PRISP, Sicredi Alianga PR/SP, Sicredi Vale do Piquiri ABCD PR/SP and Sicredi Nossa Terra PR/SF’. They act as the agencies that have the national coordinator - the vepvcsentantc elected by the members. coopevalivas also have a coovdenadov. A0 cooldenadot of the Administrative Unit is responsible for the rcpresmtav responsibilities of rognéo's cooperatives together with Central Sicredi 1: only! 0 010 ontro Central and cooperatives‘ ‘I believe that taking on this role is for our growth and development. We will be able to support the cooperatives in our region, we will work together on three strategic approaches to credit cooperativism c. principalmcntc. fax them to the organization when necessary.” comenus Aldo Dagostim. Aldo Dagostim is re-elected board member of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ Pr(*<.rL_|'m7!r3 do Vurigt/(Info LUI1{h'l1i() no grupu do !.'deres Que rmbahmm fJl3{Gs? )I.pr7.'1'§C'O do cuo,r;prr2t:-.nsnru dp (rpdtru A Central Snucdn PRx'SP#'RJ rcahzou C: 5.14.3 Aasemblena Gore! Ordu".:'m. ;» no (I43 16 do n':-r-:_n__ r; .f~ntrr,~«:1r. asgnnto-1 (1.) pantie (-5Iu?w:- in olrrvczlo drm (,or\5e |hr:;-Ir()5 dc) r'l(1UH'1|'9tfd'Ld'.'J Nd 0(,d',»Irm, :')[)f(:")V[1l :'H['3 den SH rem Vanguarcc-. PH/'SPx‘H.J, Aldo Dagoshm, 50: rcelevto ‘CONE-C‘lhI?|ft3 cargo QUE‘ mugz,-3 -:1o:3(1(’ 2019  "Pam nus, Ca ‘./a‘1guar:1«J, L‘ U‘H(JfgL.H1C) Lazar uart«;rmu5I.1Hm './~;-z do C0nr.(-Hm :10Admm:13tr:4({m dz: Cora!-al E mnal do quo t::>mo*; (()n1;‘.w1(')r‘1r.' T|l‘1"’T1U) ff1|'1'w[)\VH’(_]-.')(|()H f‘_ ‘VH1! |‘)ri"H"‘Htf"‘ IOU‘ f1Hf1f)‘~.5€)\ d'»H0(h-!(’(‘,‘w Qmrxo (m*t:rILmr -fir:-3(-m;)(-r’whando um 1ml.va|‘urj25)<'r;x!m’J¢'- pI0(h:IzvL), (0rﬂ'lhHII1f1r3(IHH a Cnn1r.-a|r- rum .4 rmssa rr1:me:r.«mv.a'f ( nrnvnta Daqostum O Cowsclho dc /\dm.n:str.aca0 of Central PFUSF'/RJ r; 'ormed by O!'ZC' p'c~;udentcs do c«:>opr_~mt:va~_: hl days that you read not; cszed from Pdlrflr-I, Sr1(,lP(5U'(_)£'RiU(1L'._JdHl'|f(,) OR CUH '1$'”1()')(' rt,-ur1e,'1.m.a w~.';71()r m-E-3. 5:-ma 'uatar do J-:.suntv3€. voltadcni. JO r_r::os>cr:«.tIw:.mc: do ctr.-:Mc. \4'.'s<' n(()mp;smmr -:- zmxohm for F-xpar 550 0 no ae5.c<n-aolvxment :19 altwcades and .:':<or?s days cooperatives. in it rn:-:)'0sr:macta5 - CTESCBT program The Crescer Program aims to train employees. cooperative members and leaders, aiming to qualify participation in the management and sustainability of the cooperative. And so that this strategy is aligned with our business, we carry out training with agencies to collaborate with their associates, the trainings connect the term cooperation with the phases of relationship with our associates. Today there are: more than 3,900 nsoclados for-modes "— v-4-win-gyms:-vuvw u-aunoaun-q-n-pp-nu ' 56 in 2022 forum 139 classes and more than 1,550 graduates '\ H A w 4-. ,5 him, I/'.' ' fwk-ésembdleia de Ndcloo Q \“L} More than 7,200 members participated in the online assembly of Srcredt Vanguarda Rt-'4.uHa(1nH [)l)HHi\I()'- (L2 (.(mpvr. \liv.I {nruln .1pr('-'.cnt;:(l<:>-3 11;: rL~unI.'m (om 0'5. .1:33r)cra(I<):; , quc tnml)Cm vOt.'1r.'Inx l.' (Ii'aculi:.u'n .'1((i1~.<. [)r'1-vi'st.'I'3 p.'Ir.'1 2022 the owners of the business, and their participation at the core assembly, we help to direct the future of Sicredi Vanguarda. thinking about its growth and development. of accounts and the planning of actions and projects planned for this year. The meeting took place on the online lormato. assemblies allow members to participate in the daily life of the cooperative. enabling voting and decisions regarding the direction of the business. Cooperativism was created through the union of associates, who were released during the maniac, the financial results and the value of the distribution of dcstc, defined jointly by the associates. Refer to the results of 2021. the cooperative distributed RS 50 million to members and more than RS 6 million were donated to the Social Fund. According to the President of Cooperaliva Aldo Daqostim, "2022 started off challenging. As the months went by, we began to return to a certain normality. We learned to live with COVID. and we followed an approach to digital lorma. We were at the side of our employees, with support to continue taking care of their physical and mental health. We support our members. with fair credit lines, for individuals, companies and agribusiness, we continue to be concerned about the community. programs and social projects to assist families and instiluicbes assislcnd-DIS. ".1'Vv!I|.'.A>11\'A“\[.(r\“J'. '\V~-nL'w1w.~1x- -'I—'mo ' rm! umuiv .r. 7,717." 'I'V!“'4:"1:\ . .1!' (defendants and studies of their semester gather more éruwawoasvwnwesw rendering of accounts of the first of the 8 thousand members "W and approximately ::;:ﬁ:°:.::;';::“:.';;” cooperative in the first moses 3 thousand guests mm. The Vanguarda is concerned with During the meetings, the participants followed Siaedi's mission, and accompanied the cooperative's actions. oletecer and social actions developed in the municipalities '°'“'°°' """"°"°' 9"' “9'°9°' mnda and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and the society . "In these early months of 2022, we realized the importance of being close and committed to economic and social development of our associates and communities. In addition to keeping people accountable with our families, these meetings are important for people to follow and connect with the social actions that the cooperative develops in the municipality': explained president Aldo Dagostim. Ordinary General Assembly of the Cooperative gathered its advisors, coordinators and board of directors to close April 2021 in a semi-resenciol manner. divided into regions, a single group gathered at the Lar Centro de Eventos. in Merianeira - PR and from there. The meeting was transmitted simultaneously to the Hotel Rainha do Brasil, in Aparecida — SF! through Fr.-namenu Pertencer, which can also be followed by coordinators who choose to watch online. The Gerol Ordinéria Assembly of Sicredi Vanguarda PRISP/RJ took place on the 2nd of 172 coordinators and 148 guests — managers of agencies and administrative headquarters — participated in the Assembly. We also had the presence of the president of Central Sicredi PRISP/RJ, Manfred Dasenbroclr. During the annual how: the presentation and approval of the strong ﬂnancial results for 2021 and discussion of the action plan for 2022, it was presented at the nindeo assembly. According to President Aldo Dogoslim, the end of 2021 began with many challenges due to the pandemic, yet the cooperative was a surprise. “We started to create 0 are with an oxorcssive result. of RS ‘I41 million. What it represents: that our associates believe in and believe in cooperafrvar Furthermore. We carried out actions that beneﬁted the communities where we are located, such as through Sicredi na Comunidade, where we transferred more than RS 585 thousand to 82 entities in our agency: we took Programs A Uniso Fox A Vrda to more cities and today we have it in 15 municipalities. 550 points like these leave us with a different approach, valuing what is associated with the difference in results and the society with programs that focus on the growth and development of regions'Z emphasizes. THE CENTER COORDINATOR The member is a liskn person elected at the center assembly. responsible for promoting dialogue, management 9 the development of the cooperative or supporting the members of the sou mkleo at general assemblies. The story that began in 1983 in the Medianeira/PR museum completed 39 years. On November 17, the General Assembly of the Constitution of the Credit Cooperative was held Rutal Trés Ftonteiras Lida. — Cvedilronteiras, today Sicredi Var-guards PR SP RJ. Traditionally we hold a ca!é da manna for collaborators and Iidevangas of the coopontiv: to do lorma symbolically mark that date (50 important. In 2023 the coopetativa will celebrate 40 years with a big ptémiosl campaign.9 lc:-cl ' F -- Agra Cafeeiro - Mofeldndio Independéncio - Toubote Foz - Porto Metro Barra do Piroi Reinau. guragoes I 1 . . K V A . 4 . . ~—- »-~- , jun; Ramildntiia k Headquarters Alvarado Guaratingueta Cascavel Santa Antonio By becoming a Sicredi PRO member. You have all the functionality of a 100% digital agency. but no longer having the humanized service provided by our cooperative. And to meet all digital demands, on the other side of the screen, our employees received a new room at our administrative headquarters in Medianeira - PR. The inauguration took place on 01/07 9 attended by the president, the board of directors and officials from the area of ​​the cooperative. SICREDI PRO completes 1 year with 730 members. working in Skredi Vanguarda's operating area with digital service. but with a manager prepared to assist you at special times. In Sicredi Pro 0 associated with; with all products and services as well as physical agencies. Ceser Scapini, our associate Sicredi PRO ’Gn<.laua no agvadeun 0 Stand: pot apoum a It-alnzacéa dc um gtande dreamil a comprar do l|K’_‘u camnnhao O mans mrrwal :2 qua men hnancnamcnto lo: solving lotma ouhnc Uma grands: emwcsa (ompnsm pm on olt-mes nro1\-'.sm- «ms Pamhens. Smedv“ Our manor conquered it and <nntnbu- u with the vealvzacéo of dreams comes 0 from Paulo Somos PRO povuuc 05 005505 PROPOSIl0s cshio ahnhados (HIV! 0 'S\ICP§$O ('HR l'|H$'>lJ§ é|5$n(l¢I- (lot. UVomSorPRO you Inmhe'm' P LEE!) is a sigh for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design suslonlavers practices in civil construction. Its mussﬁo is ​​tied to the general balance of the equviibno between the economic deserworv-memo:2 and the large socio-ambient countries. promoting quality of life and well-being. When we hear it, we hear some suslentabalrdade. We soon thought of common practices like: colt.-ta seleliva do Into, rainwater reuse. cultivar (vcrdcs areas, pelvic areas are not used and are of great importance. consullona presentc rnmensalmenlc in our library of works, rwalumdo r.- guarmando that the execution of the New Health Admnnrsmnwra nlenderﬁ in the volumes for certification. lime separation , a way of also generating the slopes of the slope. do obta am mas de dvuva rocorronto And amda M a pcqucno logoa dc scdimcnlagto. to prevent the residues of the soil from entering the watercourse existing in the terrain. The environmental concerns are not only affected by the environment. One of the premises of LEED is the reduction of the impact of the work on its surroundings. The trucks that access :1 ohm. leaving. r.-vrlando taking residues from the work to ma. lbcmrosl rainwater drainage grids, Immaculate the entry of sedrmenlos into public gal:-runs Vésando I air quality. regulation is {cite the change of the themes of the work. reducing the circulation of dust - on cold days with a large flow of trucks. Irrigation is carried out in the wastewater. in order to save 0 pb and not create negative porn arnbrcnlal A5 cmpresas prr.-crsam recognize the sun rcsponsabrlrdodc pcrunlc the society and half amhsenle and Irabalhar so that the Impado generated by sun altividade is the greatest possible, Iudo rsso altelado 3 long-term cost reduction Cooperativism Dia"% d and Cooperate promotion and encouragement The carrying out of voluntary actions that are defined and executed by the preplies cooperatives and {with the objective of developing actions of social responsibility, putting into practice the vaioves and cooperative principles, through voluntary actions. Day C is an initiative of Brazilian cooperatives, and consists of % - more than 22 bags of food W - more than 4,200 personal hygiene products % - more than 4,000 clothes and blankets E - more than 670 toys Q? - blood donation on ' Pcssoos A3104.‘ Votunuirlos: ‘ do _ mm . ' 5' 99° 3.303 ‘ I Day‘ ‘+3 of Cooperating SICREDI IN THE COMMUNITY Cooperate to transform Ouando we join together, we multiply cooperation. The 'Sicredi na Comunidado' project - Cooperate to transiormari comply with the papal cooperative. exercising interest in the community. promoting the improvement of the quality of life of the people we live in. In the year 2022, the agencies contributed through the projects more than R$ 600 thousand ruis distributed among 91 entities of the cooperative's performance. Avaoguuda (in its context, look and act in the communities where it is inserted. 6 one; forms of the cooperative return to society part of 1:00 the associate invests: with us. Like this. the agencies together with the cooperative. seek to look at the municipality where they are located and help entities and families within their needs. acbes developed by entities focusing on education, culture, sport and social support, valuing quality of life and contributing to the deserwolvimonto of the communities in the Sicrodi Vanguardo PR/SPIRJ acbo area. The resources for the creation of the Social Fund's total project. in accordance with the consumption rules in the Coopevativa Charter. A mobile playroom. which has the mission to brighten and brighten the day to day life of the children in lsolarnento at the Hospital do Cinoor Uopoccan do Cascavcl, a lorramonu ladka capo: do cthuular and promote moments of the dogrla. onwunh mount. share 0 arm. In a few needle threads and balls podom. slm, connecting hands and what hearts create a community. The proof of this can be seen in the Embroidery Workshop of the Association of Friends of Campos do Jordao (AME Campos) supported by Sicred in the Community. Action works on self-esteem. introducing a new craft to around 15 women and guaranteeing extra income for families through the sale of crafts. Vangoarda provided raw materials so that artisans could produce their arts in the workshops. The solid market pvojoto 6 an ogson created by lnstiluto Palpare in the municipality of Cruzeiro where Siaedi no Comunidade enabled the purchase of RS 7 thousand om irons from the supermarket for the start of market activities, which also served as a stimulus for other companies to start collaborating with its operation. In the last moment. 3950 impacted I Life of 100 lamflias quo roconquistarom their power of the compn and were able to acquire the products for prices below those of the traditional markets, during a period sensitive. of the strong socioeconomic impacts of the pandemic. Furthermore. the public of the solidarity market has the opportunity to soon tastes oonsdcnus or the Imponlnda of the rosonnr for the tobacco pa-to of the 'polpon". serefeunals for our communities. the Orquestnndo Sons Pvojeto that supports around 42 children. - ' ' _ . , young people and adults with Down Syndrome, the donation will help them ' ' ’ ‘ ‘ « — V ; ‘ ‘ - ' ‘ . ‘ , ‘ 7 ‘ ‘ in development, social integration and encouraging independence and ‘ ' ' . ‘ < . .' See autonomy through musical instruments. Ado do Sicredi in the Pdrai agency community. contributed with ’ - - In 7 ' b on mmmmz : V mmuu n : 1 . :« '0 .~:«»;.:~ 2» «J - ‘»~ “ . V.‘ 1.. .f._-‘_ _; . ‘ is ‘ .2 ,w:.S’.=,? 0.5;? 2022 :5 -:;~’:? -.‘?20 ~i?5 RS u ._4,-r ;;:l:‘_. .‘C (H ‘K, .’ .4 . U y . .. ._\‘ .«-‘ The allocation of Sicredi values ​​in the community can be for projects developed with audiences of all ages. The project is related to the following SDGs: mvrévor -'‘r\ __>. __ l > , " ')1 '.;I..,,_,,., .A_ v,'_,< 4“] Sicrcdi presented in 2020 my new purpose 'To build a more prosperous society, 0 Trophy "Community Protagonists" was created to recognize agencies/cooperatives that make the project tangible in projects and initiatives concrete. generating a positive impact on associates and the community. Ac create the lroléu. We recognize the importance of working on the "economic, social and environmental" pillars with the same intensity and relevance. This year our cooperative registered 52 projects. in the categories of social ocbes. ecoﬁciency. financial education, membership 1: PUFV. we had a winning project. from the Carlos Games agency (12 Cascavel PR - Social action project, with the acquisition of a machine for lapping the geriatric diapers, donated to the Paréquia Nossa Senhora do Caravaggio, which supports other churches in Cascavel. independent of religion. 2 with 3 new méqunna will be able to do even more for the community. Do you want to know the winning projects? ACCESS: comm Jovam has the objective of training through training and education. providing opportunities for personal and professional development. as well as the growth and strengthening of the young people associated with it and strength: Cooperative. Today the oomité is formed by 34 young people from Sio Paulo and Rio de Janeiro and 35 from Fulani. During this arm. The main objective for the group. We had to rescue the bond between the members by carrying out an experiential experience. Since Codes, the other work had been brought online due to the pandemic. In 2021, the Iovcos had several modules: from the end of the year, they developed a project for Educacio Flnanccira. 3 to give continuity to the work. our year. Iomoccmoc An orudrla module pans to minimise them and support them through training in Financial Education who would also serve as supporters of local agency managers. ('E-:3 we are driven by the desire to '€'Z_> make the world a place where gender equality happens and 'women take leading roles and protagonism in society. After two years dc digital meetings. in light of the pandemic. in 2022 the members of the Women's Committee will only wanton-tram in person, trainings, experiential experiences, workshops, events with 0 Involved parties and Financial Education actions were held. They were important moments to put into practice all the knowledge involved. An event made for women. pﬂl women! With a special article by Bruna Lamárdi, the event in its third edition brought together more than 2,700 women. Involved was created within Sicredi Vanguarda's Women's Committee. with the aim of bringing the feminine public closer to cooperativism. promo seeing discussions of the feminine universe. debating leadership. gender equality and empowerment in the most diverse areas of women's personal and professional lives. 0 Involved is a Sicredi Vanguarda event, taking place in Paraná since 2019 and bringing together approximately 10,000 women in person and online. Atria and speaker Bruno Lombardi was the star of the 2022 event, in November. cm Cascavel, western Paraná forum more than 1,500 women present and for the first time in Sao Paulo in the city of 550 José dos Campos. more than 1,200 participated in the meeting. Bruna brought in her speeches the importance of feminine power and how each woman can identify ways to find fulfillment in different areas of life. In Paraná. The event also included the participation of Wanda Inés Riadi. businessman and farmer. She told her life story. He began his career as president of the family company that operates in agribusiness. moslran- What you need to start to get where you want. Involved also has a beneﬁcial role. Participants made donations to local institutions that support women, in S30 José dos Campos aimed at pregnant women in situations of vulnerability. the Guadalupe House and the Hive Valuing Life. and in Cascavel. the beneficiary joins the O Caminno Fraternity. entity that works with socially vulnerable women. the J V '1 union. fax to uida Program “A Uniﬁo Faz a Vida” is launched in 8 municipalities PR/SPIRJ implemented the main initiative of Sicredi’s social responsibility - The Uniﬁo Faz avida Program - in oilo new municipalities in the Alunaoz area 17/05 - Vera Cruz do Oeslel PR. 18/05 - Undoeslel PR and Diamante D'Oeste/ PR. 19/05 - ltaipuﬂndilli PR, 14/06 - Ouatis/RJ, 04/07 - Ubatuba/SR 25108 — Lovenal$P and 19/09 — SantaTerezinha de Itaipu/PR. The children's education centers and schools benefiting from the project will have activities about cooperative education. to promote the importance of teamwork aimed at the common good. The Yangamcnto councils were attended by mayors and other municipal authorities. as well as the Sécredi team and corwidados. To act out the moment. Those present followed the lecture “Uniéo Faz A Vida: foundations and practices of Cooperalivism, Humanization and Sustainability as passwords for a better world” given by professor Cosar Norms. Cooperation in educacéol Sicredi Vanguarda For the president of Sicredi Vanguarda, Aldo Dagostim. Slcredl Invest: in education. This is why it affects children and teachers, and wants to develop more and more man": the community is included. "When people ask why a financial institution cares so much about education. I say that at Sicredi, we are not just here to produce good financial results, we want to increasingly value the human set and develop what we gain from our products. County. It is the largest social responsibility program currently. It is the Uniao Faz a Vida Program. which comes to add to the education already existing in the municipality, with a different way of teachingf‘, he explains. Sicredi Vanguarda implemented the "A Uniao Faz a Vida" Program in the municipality of Céu Azul in 2008 and over the years it reached other municipalities in the western region of Paraná and since 2021 also in the states of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeito. In partner schools. the experience of the methodology places The student as protagonists in the learning process through "imesligalivasf expeditions" which 530 is the starting point for defining the dimensions of the cooperative projects. The educators Iotulate questions that guide the visit; to observe, explore and discover the environment I} sue voila. A965 the expedition. the students deﬁne, democratically, the project to be carried out. 527 choosing the theme on which They want to know! more. The Uniéo Faz a Vida Program contributes significantly to achieving the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). promoted by the United Nations as part of the 2030 Agenda. 0 panel promoting access to learning opportunities for everyone. More than 850 educators from Pro rama a Uniﬁo Faz a ido gathered at the Summit Educagio After a lot of war about online classes, hybrid model and challenges with a group with social disunity, Summit Educoglo 2022 Crown: a welcoming and promising message for what is vital. The event, held on November 19th. in Mediaoeira IPR) brought together more than 850 education professionals from the cooperative's area of ​​operation in Parané. Educators who registered their projects and work in the municipalities covered by the programs in the western region of Parané, participated in the event and in the exhibition of the work through rnackets. cards and toys, involving everything that contributed to the construction of the sens projects. There were 470 projects registered during 2012. The meeting featured a lecture by Professor Max Haetinger, with the theme: Welcoming. Cooperation in Learning and Active Methodologies: the innovative classroom. ‘This event is essential for educators to exchange knowledge and share their projects, and it is very graliﬁcante may take part in this moment, offering a lecture that talks about the essence of our program. score the cooperation and the welcome he provides. To all these professors, Max comments. "We spent almost 14 years in the region. This is our main social responsibility initiative, in direct collaboration with educators, with children 0 involving families 0 the community. We hope that the The culture of cooperativism is a constant in children's lives from an early age. for a decisive future of our society, emphasizes the president of the cooperative. Aldo Dagostim. WDXVTTSTUNNNSMNA ER ENDOSOSLOMLKARESE DOProfossaroxhoc ¢ h9CR DISTRIBUTE OF Z? @@ a0zz@ci7@§ Distribuigueo DC Tesult is one of the GVandcs of our coopectaliva, the value distributed by 2022 corresponding to 2021. Our associates received their parlicipaglo last Proportional to the use of modules and services of the cooperative, failure in current coma and failure in capital coma, 05 values ​​are available to be checked in the APP Associates lubilados relationship is the main means of establishing business with our associate. which is the done business. and recognizing those who contribute and have been part of the cooperative for the longest time is the objective of lubilados. Members aged 65 or over and with a membership period of over 5 years. are recognized by Sicredi Vanguarda with a gift and a certificate. delivered every month during breakfast. In 2022, 1,238 members participated in the ‘Education Coaperativa’ forum. l\ ., “x ‘x \X i \_ If the National Financial Education Sicrcdi. organized free agdcs to promote financial education during ENEF Week. With the aim of making people aware of the topic. Sicredi launched the web series "Yes or N30, Dinheiro na M30", there are also TV episodes with a parody of the programs auditorium in which the participant is placed inside a booth and must answer "Yes" or "No" to the presenter's questions, even without hearing them and without knowing what is happening on stage. During ENEF Week. The episodes were released on Sicredi's social networks and published on the website. "The web series was produced based on the contents of Coopetagéo na Ponta do Lépis_ 0 Sicredi's financial education program, bringing stories inspired by everyday silhouettes and aiming to To understand the idea that we can't count on our health alone to make our financial choices, we need to go in search of knowledge, like Cristiane Amaral. manager of Fundagbo Sicrodi. At Sicredi Vanguarda we carry out workshops and financial education sessions in different areas and connected with the reality and context of the regions where we operate. Forum held 214 actions, with the participation of 246 volunteers that impacted more than 10 thousand people. 0 to [?@ﬂD[E3ﬂ[E3 It’s part of our essence! Sicredi has been a great partner in helping and encouraging children to save. In times of economic crisis, saving and using resources wisely has never been more important. Many of our habits were built in our infancy. With this in mind, Sicredi develops projects that work to improve relationships with money. as happened in the municipality of Ramiléndia, west of Paraná. Financial education project carried out in the Center MUHICIDOI de Educaqéo Infontil Mano Ahce de Bonus. The project carried out at the Maria Alice de Barros Municipal Children's Education Center was designed with the aim of making children realize that they can make their dreams and desires come true through planning. ‘We believe that the sooner children learn to save. healthier! It will be your financial life in Lulauro. And so it was. they could let large I I ‘ C O and 9 6 O Safe boxes were given to the students. as I 'mIuu't I can't see them saving and later fulfilling some personal wish. This all demonstrates Sicredi's commitment to development. Strengthening and improving financial education skills that contribute to a sustainable financial life and the construction of a more prosperous society. personal and social achievements, using mancira's money. and Gerenle ( , . Colpani de Bairros. Administrative manager, Rubm Menoncm Justen, ’ Sicredi agency in Ramiléndia. they handed out piggy banks to the students E'd U C a O 6'] ndamental approach fy :10 n Ce 1 ra .. éina with the children. defonna (eve e adaptoda l_1aO Him 3:: Made. nsinar 6 care! Financial education is a subject that has only been discussed since childhood. Talking and teaching through attitudes and small challenges is the best strategy for creating a community positive in relation to money. Financial education doesn't just boil down to giving: allowance and controlling the kids, it's much more than that. is to provide tools for sustainable choices. teach planning and organization, as well as the adoption of good saving practices. Talking about the lama is part of the routine of associate Luci Piletti Niedemayer, mother of Thaies Augusto. eleven years old. “We always advise that we cannot spend money for nothing, that we need to keep a reset on our savings, and cstabclcccr objectivesi rcsalta Luci. Thaies is saver at Sicredi. since he was 8 years old. ‘l’udo started with the desire to buy his first ceklar. "I wanted to save the money and created a savings account. On my birthday, instead of gifts, I asked for money for my grandparents and loved ones, at Easter it was like that too. So, I kept saving and saving until I managed to save enough for my goal. After that, I saved it to change the monitor on my computer. and now I maintain the habit of saving money on them. For Skrcdl. to work on education ﬁnancial relationship with parents and children is a great way to help you think about your grief. “We know it is challenging to teach about how to take care of money. but it is essential that we start talking about this with children, so that they form the habit of saving, of having a reserve, thinking about college or making a dream come true", comments the manager of the Sicredi agency in Santa Helena, Lisangela Aparecida Kuhn. cc 3 ‘ cooperation 5; at the V' tip of the pencil Program_ Coo eragao at the point of the Lapis is highlighted in the Banking Transformation Award 2022 by popular vote The Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lapis, was nominated and elected by popular vote as the best Financial Education Initiative in the Banking Transformation Award 2022. In its 18th year, the Prbnio Banking Transformation 2022 takes as The purpose is to promote, encourage and value the label's main cases, highlighting innovative projects. "People5 across Brazil pointed to Cooperaqéo in Ponta do Lépis as an important initiative in financial education 2 i550 makes us proud. and very much, due to Sicredi's recognition in supporting people to have a greater enjoyment of finance so that they can achieve their dreams and lead an increasingly sustainable financial life." says Romeo Balxan, superintendent of Cooperatlvism and Sustainability at the Foundation Sicredi. Created in 2020. Cooperacao na Pbnta do Lapis is a Program based on Behavioral Sciences and Economic Psychology. people to become aware of their relationship with money. through financial education. The initiative shares information. knowledge and good practices for a sustainable financial life. with qua!’-dude of life in the present: and in the future. The Program also has a partnership with Mauricio de Sousa Producbes. in which. Through six GBs and six videos, Turma da Ménica provides financial education in a light and fun way. To get to know the Cooperation in Ponta do Lapis access: zatra _ vupedl "Education. tormagéo and intovmageoi motivated Sacredi to (race the Teatro Poupedi for more than 33 thousand (children for free. The show Ieva to the children's pdbhco concepts of financial education, cooperation and medical sustainability , 81 classes were held this year. Sicredi read the show about financial education - and cooperation for more than 33 thousand children. returns with Coda in force. The last visit of the troupe in 2019 will be an audience of more than 25 thousand students from the municipal networks, in the three states of Sicredivanguarda, Parana. S50 Paulo v Rio de Janeiro. The show was developed and staged by Cia dos Palhacos and presents concepts of education, cooperation, respect is diversity and how to use natural resources in a conscious way to cherish children towards a greater struggle (onsdenle. A p4 .-ca is built from dynamic, playful and fun manner. using circus language. of teallo and music, during the entire show, the clowns encourage the participation of students and teachers in the development of history. The partnership between Sicredi, Cia dos Palhacos and several councils emerged in 2015 and since then, the code has grown. year. More than 83 thousand children already watch the Poupedi Theater. In 2021, we began studying and preparing the cooperative for a new model of qesulo, focused on being more humanized, with "Management by purpose is a rescue of our true essence. a more transparent, coherent relationship and aimed at an even greater approximation with our associate. purpose. dode or construction iuntos a melbor soiuqlo pro ole. We even realized «we during the process the result of the cooperative was not affected. In the month of September the cooperative held the Purpose Summit with being including the best summary of the cooperative's historyﬁ emphasizes all more than 1,500 collaborators in two eggs. one om Modianoira- presidents of Sicredi Vanguarda PRISPIRJ. Aldo Dagostim. PR 2 another in Taubaté-SP, with the aim of involving the teams and sharing knowledge and results that [6 have been presented by the laboratories. During the event, the CEO of the Institute Cliento Foliz co-founded the its entirety - and 75 other agencies falling into four down groups of Reclame Here, Gisele Paulo spoke about the importance of char for evolution. According to my maturity level. The bottom line is that at the end of the associate you understand what makes him happy and fulfilled. and mainly, as 2024. the leveling of the cost process achieved in Coda cooperative. We can be happy in our work. Being a global trend, purposeful management comes quickly being adopted by international giants such as Starbucks. Google 2 Nike. That makes us feel safe. shows that we are on the right path and this movement is an important step: to continue evolving as an organization and generate even more value for our employees, associates, partners and the communities in which we operate. People who cooperate care, prosper and have fun together. This year we had a great challenge in partnership with the Inclusion and Diversity Committee, of transform family week into a remarkable, democratic and inclusive date, transmitting an inspiring message and promoting actions to strengthen unity and coop- crativism. For a week, our collaborators and associates were invited to participate in small challenges. encouraging them to spend more time with their family and share these moments with us. -.<- m—.—-. .. n-zr.~m~u.vu con-urn‘ dc-_ , mclusion e dwersndade 90 SELF-CARE DAYS A few years ago, Vanguarda developed in the months of September. October and November, internal campaigns 1: with health awareness associates. Our social networks and our agencies receive the characteristic colors of each of the campaigns. During the month of September an extremely important and significant campaign takes place, the month of revenge on suicide. when we give vent to what we sense, the campaign relots that ':7 convcrsor scmprc 6 the best way out. In October the campaign comes to Iernbrar in just Irés minutes g_x . . of care provides the basis for a life of well-being. Self-examination is one of the main means of preventing breast cancer. The month of November brings an alert; important for human health: the prevention of premature cancer, remembering that early diagnosis is the right path to cure. N ovF9:“»::.n:. covering walls and building bridges - including it in practice. loi o theme of the live that the Inclusion and Diversity Committee carried out with Sicredi Vanguavda collaborators. During the event, some of the actions carried out in the last two years of work were presented. and we know the actions already started that year. We had the online presence of the president of Central PR SP RJ, Mr. Manfred Alfonso Dasembrock, one of the great promoters of the meeting. in addition to knowing the new elected members. INCLUS/i0 DIVERSITY "'3E:constructing internals of your organization. With trust, credibility and respect. we managed to (transmit as: satisfaction of the owner of the cooperative. expanding to our areas of operation. 5"~r.1nm 2 m'm1~ .1'. 'H-.' In-Lwr-. 'W1 1: a», “H ii" ---------""T This year. pol: first vex. Sicredi participated in the GPTW Ranking of the Best Companies to Work For. in the Sectoral and National categories. In the Ranking. the organizations certified are compared with the market. from the consultations of the Climate Research Q aprcscnlzcio of the practices ‘ mm.“ hm 5‘ '. Highlights 2022 National and regional awards and recognition Sela Clirna Porond Além 01550. a Central Smoo- PFUSPHRJ Iecobou. D010 Second nno consecutive. 0 So.lo Climu Parana. In the 2022 code, it is recognized: in calcgov-. Socrodi who work in Parané. The plr.-miocbu conccdxdn polo Sccvcl.-nia do Dcscnvolvnmenlo Su<..u-nuwcl and Tunsmo vcnhccc actions conlm the global change of (Inna. Top dc Marketing - Social category 0 Pvojclo Siucdi & Smurfs: junloa polo dcsa.- nvolv-nu-nlo suslcnliovcl won the Top Prize of Markclmg 2022 - catogonn Socnal (k-sla<a cases do sutcuo, pmmuunda as melhovcv. pcrlmmantas das cmput. posxtwo to create a more luscious and sustainable society. (alt.-guru "lnav.\(bo pan: nicndumonlo no cluonle/consmmdov ~ cavuns c plamlolnus of digital olomlunonlo’. com 0 case one momove the mduséo of ocssoas com debut"-no.1 audmvn not alcndnmvnln dig-tal era Ncgécios 0 Saved: conouistou a 8.' <o|o<a<ao (omo ma-or hanm do Eli!- . A. by alwo: lolnis. dc agree with or annual Epota N1.-gbcios 360” Corn man. 64.- R5 197 b-Ihbcs cm alwos, to -nsmu-(Ac showed urn m.-scunemo annually an 27.6%. sutmu-do um; D0si(80 in compaucéo an uniung of 2021 The nnsmuécio amda conquialou to posiqbo dc 6.' mam: by dcpos-to, adding quest RS 130 names. 2 to 8.‘ ma-or in palnmovno lolal. O muano walla companies do moo o Brass! om secs dsmensoes cl-lcrenles dcscmoonho limmcclro. susu-nl:abvlirl.\r1c. oovwnanca cotpomtvva, pcssoas, ioavacéo the vision of mourning. Rating 656 With non I5.9 In evaluation by Movnmg-mu Susumnalym 9. 0 Siuodn lo-' 0sLsTA|NA].YT|c$ tons-dcrado (om “RIKO Baum” from snlu-1 umpacmc lmancciros originating: from laluuca E56 . Covu .: clumcul-d, 0 Slnodi llqum emu» at 20 nmlnnms 'flames Dvvcvsificazlos‘ - of the 400 giohalmcnlc polo class-htadora dc nsco ESG affiliates. in oulubvo from 2022. Enue as quostbes .w.tlud.n, vale dcsuur o dcscmponho positive na mlcgoru Govcmnnga Corpomlnva, por scus ll|(Il(a(l0llL'5 de qovemauca ESG. poliluas de sunslontahlirhno I.' nansnaIér\( u.1 llstal, assirn come pm 14:! sugnathrno do Poclo Global do ONU. -mtivas dc Cvédulo. om Glasgow' na Ii. Mada: c automahxados, in order to reach the netessstlades o and up to"-6-to of the residents of the agvo segment, therefore rm.-no dd Cédula do Pvoduto Raul (CPR). Value 1000 The Sxrt-dc so clas-uhcoul mats mna Vex. no value I000, never organized by Economic Value, considcrodo um do: mm: nnpovlanles ranimgs do Brass! in lermos ue avalsagbo dc empwsas A -nsmu-(.\n mnquuszou -\ B " pos-cm n.\ catoqona 'I00 Mmoccs Santos'. a collocation .><-ma cm rcmqoo no .100 (lass-xlo 'lbp Asset O Suur.-du conquulated n 7 ' pastcbo arm: as mclhou.-5 9:.-atom: do iunaos do reoda hm, no tan)-mg ”Top Asset': da u-vista Invcshdov institutional A 49 ' edition do Yop Asswt, pub!-cad» I \ \ "I I H ,1: cm April, lcve as base 0 peiiodc dc I2mcs1-5, ﬁnoliudo ' \ \ I I I H ,\ ‘I in do:-rmbm do 2021 0'. lnndns (Ir rend: ham do Sin:-dn hzamm na 7,' collocation do unlung A pub|Ic.1§bo dcztoca .1 Lapilandanle do slslevna coopoialuvu, uuc conla Lom 2.2 mil agénnas, dastramidas am mats do 100 coop:- ralwas in the country Broadcast Proicgbes Po.-Io Prize According to one conseculwo, Snuedi is rctormented in the umlung that mu as -nsmu-Q61.-s hnanu.--us and zonsuitou-as and(om'mu(as which most accelerated the cstunalivas sum as vanlwms mntrnoconflm-r.:s (IPCA, Ian Solar. Ina an nimhm Ptodum lntomo Brulo, cnm: outvasl. In the 16th ’ cdice of Pu:-rmo Broadcast Proicgbcs. 0 Skrodi gamnlnu a 9.' post-Q50 no You Geral 5Foadcast rd-vb- Central Bank Economic Proicqrécs Before the first year (following, the Socredi e decline in ranking L L annual of pvoyegoes etoobnmas dwulgaoo pt-lo Cenlval Bank V E-me mans of (cm oiqanimcbcs. ivxluing the maioccs insmuocoos linancciras c tonsullona-'. of the ctonornu of the country. 0 am Sacred: Hgulou cm two calcgun:-2 mlevanlcs, living w vrprescnlated pclo Banco Cooperative Socrcdu e pcla Suuedo Assn, gt-slow dc rocursos my unsmmcao lmanceura (oopcval-va. ustﬁn I I Cl 8 Sicredi's commitment to sustainability was reinforced in January 2020, when Siaedi formalized its adherence to the Global Compact. with this we come to endorse the Principles of the Global Compact 0 the Objectives of Sustainable Development [17 SDGs] as guides for our sustainable development. The Sustainability Committee, as an objective to evaluate, dobator 0 recommender local inkiativas, in all matters linked to which it can be linked in (in: Suslcntabﬂidode. 0 comm zeta, propaqo e fax valor a Sustainability and Socio-Environmental Responsibility Policy 9 cs Mocvotemas de Suslenubilidade. It is formed by 25 members, being President. Vice-Presidents. two members of the Board of Directors Directorate. Area Managers 9 three Agency Managers: Tvm as rx-spon~;.we-I n Pu-and:-nlr an (()()|) ¢'r.\|Iv.\ Rcunc sr: scsmcstralmentc para dubntet some 0 I--nu can lodns .1-,~ ucu,-ucm-. An SI<v('dv , online lectures on awareness. meetings with collaborators and inclusion of SDG cubes in all agendas, bringing information to associates and co-laborators. In the school. 9 batteries run from the batteries. Dow named Srcredi, as he remembered the POPE—PLHAS rla agency Davi was received with great excitement at the agency. where it was an example of environmental education In addition to the traditional Sicredi coffee. Davi liked Sicredi Vanguarda's various actions carried out with a focus on sustainability. relating aspects related to social spheres. economic and environmental. One of the initiatives is aimed at disposing of batteries, a strategy that seeks to promote the reduction of impacts on the environment and the consumption of natural resources. which erwolve all the agencies and the cooperative's soda. In 2020 we became participants in the Giobul Pact, making a commitment directly connected to our purpose as a cooperative institutional institution meeting the 17 objectives of the Sustainable Development Goals {SDG}. Join this campaign. Sicnedi offers battery collectors - PAPA-PILHAS. in all your 2 agencies at headquarters. seeking to involve employees and associates in raising awareness of the use of natural resources and the disposal of material materials. At Fox do Lguaqu's Argentine Ropﬁbic operation - PR, we had the illustrious visit of six-year-old Davi. son of associate Luiz 'lhiago Parana D'0|iveira. Father and son brought the batteries (we used them to carry out oorrectal disposal. The initiative arose from an activity developed at school. Knowing the different materials and the importance of correct destination. The teachers give opgbos from the places where they could only go to the card, 0 Davi chose them to Sicredi. Pot is her accompanying her parents at the agency and having seen some collection campaigns. Associate Luiz says that his son was very happy to be able to take the batteries to the agency himself. "He was very warmly welcomed by the team, who congratulated him on his altitude. The occasion only became very important: for him, it is an experience that he always talks about to his family, friends and teachers." highlights Luiz. I asked Davi. adding to the importance of disposing of batteries, he highlights his concern for the environment. 'It's very important: taking care of nature and helping the planet we live onf: finish Davi. Solar plant that supplies land to the Altair rural property. inducing irrigation. Machinery is not a residence. Investing in solar energy is investing in the future! In a time when we are looking for solutions sustainable solutions to contribute to our planet. Solar energy has come out ahead when it comes to electrical generation. Also called photovoltaic. solar energy is a (om: of clean energy. ronovévol e inesgotivol, or soy, ola depends on the exclusion of the sun's rays to power cases. esuubeiecimentos. companies and rural areas. The Jnstalaqso of the ice solar plant' The possibility of generating one's own energy elettica caused associate Altair to become ill due to Schlemper's partner Seemann, investing in solar panels on his property. ‘I 5’‘7’“’‘ ‘"35 ;"":5 5° C"°d"° started installing solar panels to power my home and those of my "V: '1“ ° in“ children. I sing in the city as in the countryside. As a result, I expanded the property and acquired my own solar plant. where the initial objective is cra vendor cncrgia. However, the consumption is very high, due to all the machinery and irrigation, they are managing to supply the rural property with sludge and only use it for own consumption, but of course the expectation is to expand and be able to generate income': highlights Altair. There is no shortage of advantages when it comes to solar energy. It can reduce your bill by up to 95%, its installation process is simple and quick, and it lasts for a long time. which can exceed 25 years of operation, is non-polluting and requires little maintenance. Altair also reports on the flexibility of use that solar energy offers. "Before I had the help of night light - which allowed me to use speciﬁcally during the early hours of the morning, and now as I have the solar energy generated by my plant. I consign to using it at any time of the day, which ends up being a very big advantage for those who need to carry out irrigation using the Altair. Gt-r(9n(r' dn .Ig¢rvn.1, Thmqu Mm w! d(' I-tutor. Souza c 3 agro accounts manager, Jaquelme Regsna Rauber Bourschc-rd! Ferreara, in vvsua na propnI-d :adr- do .'I~'-'.()(lJd0 Allan .Your life is still safe! During «so am. our associates roooboram with lulu 0 Mapiro uguro primaries in the total value of I-IS 205354.22. Draws are held monthly for all members who have life insurance. 'I Mithél Zanoni - \'1n-'.' ho dr: 'l1J1;_'o '1 Claudeciv Da Silva - Fa.-' Fm lq.mg1. .Aqv?nr:.1 RPnuhl'-.".'1 — Sr-gum .*J.u\.r' rr« A Stophani lam upon” 21 nos. 9 M four hands have the insurance of life. I'm pal faze. Pols, hello I would like to work 0 «uric with moving all days. According to her. carries this teaching from her parents and takes care of her life. The partner recently got married, and this is extra money to start a life together. take some corms from urnerlo's fesu and enjoy one: vengeml Stephani Luiza Welter ~ ':3.)nt:- R'o'..1 Cc 01:71.1 _ _ /mic RS 6 85190146 Indemnities Patnmonml at 1116 554.20 Ro :ms(4r:(|.1I RS .1 -143133,}? from Rural RS 5 995076.77 11.1111 'us at 329 6* 1 oz, Total RS 24,236 339.71 cnémro credit 6 lradidonolmonlc one of the most well-known forms of vealiur tonquistas and dreams. At Sicredi there are countless lines available to support the member in the DB. At Vanguard: we have one: concern with the generation of conscious and sustainable credit. 0 with this we created during 0 am. some ospcciﬁcasz Lines Credit loeomocloslrnolillcoda ..11 ljmuersamun luntns During 70?? mandamus mam dd- 28 thousand members with housing from cornerual and rural credit, including BNDES and BRDE ttttﬁ Cam based on [JQSQUISO FIFE, with 0 volume hybridized by Swredv Vanguavda in 2022. we generated + 117 thousand new jobs. Z I, ‘If -C 1} ‘:3! W"! Fabricio Nilo Redivo (":1 H nfr 6- ix ;:-H C4-.1.,|.“,LEx'._::;uo'1.,ly-"1;L1,; Emprccndimcmo : Florybal — Lop dc Chn(oI.1t(-<. Art(-<..1n.1i<. from Grnumdo We often help our assouados. - pains that also sac empve ' end:-doves. that in addition to being ' dedicated to cooperation. also aaedimm and invc-stem in their cmprosas, moaning omprc- , go and income. For this to be realitie- dc. elcs too rely on Sicredi's credit lines. Eliane Follmann iwr: : “' '.'x '' \ .-ﬁn" Emprc.-cnrdumcntoz ConE.(m( no (Ir: 8 i(I(hg('SIuI  'H.|m:ntul¢-mgzn‘ I‘llI‘ll1l'1|!ll'I.|()llH‘\.|l|l()‘.I)Efl"~1‘|l)(iA‘yl(li)‘ll1I! um allwwwl  mun, H '1 nu tm: -| .|lw'I:1.u1a- (1t~'.uIl\n(|||1Il'.I 0 mm m.n~. Im-. -.n.u1u-mull-u (~ (1  .1-:l~.-Q.IJ(lo ‘.I;:tan1( see. (1 , (03 E asswux :3 v'uzc~rro;, Em 51-EI!CL">rJ com cu Snc -.‘ncont'.rn ‘ '.~ mua ouca ’ ‘cm Sucrcd Iacm c at "I|II!I'_‘(hll'L unal «.;L.c (m|.\a|'m Com !)l.wmo(u|1u'a <1-3 ,..n uma mu.-a com ‘ens mm L ut.|u:.J:1;o pct,» 0 Into (I ' out mu .1 : Com um‘ r .t. mm at um-3»-u m;n-J;m1cnt-:- um quI|0m('!vO 207.} ms! cu .n‘\:| \HIr_{JC.‘s0 - (3:10 Cm znn an: ,um o:-mlnmu rcnonando J . no .10 aux), V tCQ Kc:-ncrmlrn n(;m-:m«:Ic (I uI1\.1f::>vm.1su<'n:"\! Ic- -:-)<:»p«:-v 1! .3} ncrccho:-r qu c»~.;um . E Cor 0 cr-bin»  v.'| do Slcu-dl II. " . I -.-vl .'I lI‘l‘. ‘:0 <. Sucu-(ll ‘.L (<un\.’mm)  In-,‘||I<I.a(l-.-, [um-. 0 -,:>I’v|m Pl.) L'm\:lI.'1', u~.’I~. .4 Vl',l||.'.1( Sm r!u- n- 141: <l:- frmnic ( (mp:-v.alIv.1 '     1 Here it's cold. C sci do " S®§'''U''F3:!.'E !J7'7t35.'7T.'?G3 For 0 Sicvcdi, helping to achieve mat/as and projects is what moves the relationship between cooperative and associates. We make a patte of entrepreneurial stories, as in the Life of Solange Langaro Hermes, associate in Sub Sade - PR. Solange always worked like a seamstress. but her dream was wrong! "I contacted Sicredi. Because M years has been the goal of creating something new in the city, and when the opportunity arose, I embraced it with all my might. support from my manager." explains Solange. Supporting associates to realize their dreams and projects is part of Sicredi's mission. “Solangc approached us with the proposal of acquiring an establishment to open a sovetevia, we found the idea very intense. 0 in something that our district needed. We were very happy to participate in this new achievement of the association, says Andreo Pedvoso Mine, who runs the Sub Headquarters. Believing in the associate, is the essence of coopevalivismo, "My family and I, we feel very fulfilled. the community (also Slavic) is also looking forward to the opening of the new ice cream parlor. and Agaétcria in Sub ' ~ Headquarters. "With certainty. this is the beginning of my partnership with Sicredi. In addition to being able to count on the ptaticity of the products and services and the excellent service. I want to implement other projects. such as I ampbiacbo of the sotvetcria and the construction of the ptopria house’. finish Solange. poiandoé ’ V farm happen! Sicredi was present at the 7th Rura (Tech with the objective of creating connections and innovations that allow us to get even closer to members. Sicredi participated in FhuralTech. which took place on the 18th, 19th and 20th of August, in Santa I _ Helena in western Paraná. agroecology, ornamental plants, agroind\’:stria. Dairy livestock, rural tourism, n.-novévcis cnerqias. agricultural machinery and implements. ‘ In the first day, Sicredi gave Abcnura’s main lecture. performed by landscape artists Jessica Gimenes T8mba|o and Beam‘: Sizilio dos Santos. with the theme "Innovations in agribusiness". the new solutions available on the brand, starlupf police, comments Jessica Gimenes Timbalo. ﬁuralTech is a great opportunity to bring closer, technical producers. students. companies and other entities. With advertising focused on the rural sector and technologies, the event exceeded expectations. finish Lisangela Apalecida Kuhn. agenda manager 45: Saint Helena. CooPAV'1-:1} Rural Show 2022 Siaedi's panicipoclo at the Coopavel Rural Show (eve moi: from RS 220 million in business volume. The number recorded is 17% higher than the 2020 edition of the event' 0 Business Development manager at Central Skredi PR/SPIRJ. Gilson Furies. highlighted that the positive results at the fair highlight the importance of one of the key features of credit cooperativism and Sicredi: close communication with members. "Man otuoclo is a partnership with the rural producer. That's why we can meet the profile and needs of each one (I: rm.-best way possible. This efficient support guarantees direct benefits for both the member and the cooperative. The benefit to the community by promoting regional development’: he highlights. Focus on sustainability in the field: solar energy was highlighted One of Sicredl's focuses during the 2022 Rural Show was financing and credit for the acquisition of solar panels. Pvocating to support the module: rural in sailing to altemalivas for electrical energy in the countryside. During the fair, the institution Financial cooperatives have registered more than 200 financing opportunities for energy photovoltaic projects. generate a turnover of 85 42.1 million. In recent years, Slcredl has increased its share of green economy products and services. Sicredi's credit portfolio for financing solar energy in Brazil totaled B5 4.5 billion at the end of 2021, with an increase of 93% compared to the same period in 2020. Only in the Patané regions. Séo Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. the 1 total released exceeded Rs 1.1 billion, in more than 27 thousand operations. last year. . ' iﬂiifi Eeliﬁlllilél ’ 'l'«JE'1IM\B l.'lll!.'£'L'J Second largest institution in the granting of rural credit With mizcs in its composition, Sicrcdi has a long partnership with agroncg6-do. The institution stood out in the ranking of the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban) as the 2nd largest financial institution in granting credit aimed at agribusiness. @@Dﬂ§@D“@5@§ With 0 consbtcio You can purchase hens on later renovations without compromising your financial planning. Sicredi has a wide variety of lines: Consércio Soslentbvel. dc Machines and equipment. Automobiles. lmfweis, Néutico conselcio. Trucks, TVs and utility vehicles, Service Consortium, Motorcycles, Customized Furniture and even Drones. Do like our associates Aline 0 Marcelo 0 realize your dreams. lune o!.l.w.a .1 p.\s‘.evo ua pram quanuo It-cobcu .1 toneor offer no aulomovovs do Ssucdn c excited about the advantages_ ended up winning a consortium comp and the surplcsa vcao emlcs mcamo dc: volmr da vnagcru "E'3:»a c a -Jcgunda vcz Iomos contcrnplndos no con<.on:m I've been a pnmeua for 11 years with wow (Ma, r- agova with 0 (arm We paid the pnmeila palcela in a second class 2 in qumla vecebn a dumulo SMS quv havaa sud!) (anleumlatia Na hora no,-nu-u quv pmlusso aw lmmie puns Mhei que nho loss» mlpn -.-.iw=l sec xuvleada cm pnmmm, c-nlan entvs-I in (ontalo com 0 qereute Que me cnnhvmou e infmmou uue lm ”s<)rlcada rm p('dl'iI' 50060 asslm, nan pvctnsamu nonhum valot do ian<c. Fnquou mans SIu;)!C'$:u .ms<Ia, 0 mmm Candle Vonamog . d<- vmgem .;- 1.1 (0nsl.'(JIn- mos fazc-I 3 lroca do (JHO We are Iehzes 9 sallsfcltos with 0 atcndirnr.-Mo of our Jgéncoa dc Aqro Cafccua quc a short time ago was bad c ya (5 Aline Apareclda Zanln In 2022 forum: 2337 :::::.'.':.:':::.., Uberodo credit value through condrdo: as 158.113.598.69 C-gumlo Marcelo. sun n.mmrad.1 and ole s«mh.w.\m rm comlmu a lat, a lac dreamed.) house prbpna. "We miormamos some as dnvcrsas oossabllndadcs cyustcntcs so that our dream dc-xassc dc scr a piano 0 rcalnmnlr so concvctnmasc Fol when (0nhc(|;'n10',. the consotuous Si(r:.'dL Alena do ">c3qur ". gut in» .1 «xx.» pnrnma, uqu-In qua a dua (hi a sonlm gr': 6- tuna u-n|i<la(Ir- Ommdu a parade of the no-wing house is lifted. always Aembmrnos que 0 Snuedl la: pane dossa hus(oraa' j hnahza Marcelo Marcelo Fuchs _ pix loi Iangado polo Banco Central com I pvomcssa of the revolution, not only the pogamemo media metamarket, but also the culture and experience of the population in paying and receiving. Pix dueled on November 16 of 2020. meeting the needs of consumers and emoreenders. facilitating and speeding up payments and receipts at a very low cost for the market, providing banking services to a part of the population that was still only able to use cash in kind. This consolidated local financial circulation, contributing to small businesses. While the meccado fell, I6 in 2020, and in the same said that Pix would not be sustainable, we celebrated the opportunity to provide our associates with an inclusive and democratic solution. whatever person can use, at low cost. exempt for PF. quickly. easy. available and vetsati. No shit. 580 more than 523 MM of tvansaobes registered, with an increase of 50% last year. More than 2 MM of tvansaobes occur every month to the same users. Howe a 126% awareness in the last year. As a result there are more than 85 900 billbos with tranuqbos Pix moonl- memo. At Sicredi Vanguarda we have more than 154 M associated with pix. which amount to more than 190 M registered keys, or so. approximately 23% of the associates have more than one dnavo conosoo. Our members and savings received more than 24MM of Pix in 2022, more than R$22B in financial volume, 5596 more in 2021. What is Pix Recurrent and how does it work? Pix ﬂecovrente allows: the rapid payment program. giving members all the benefits of Pix to pay any monthly fee. be the school. subscriptions, gym or even support a monthly social project. That Functionality allows you to create and send monthly Pix payments automatically and securely. Or yes. the member registers the Pix of people or companies that they pay frequently, 9 on the chosen date the payment is made automatically. Scheduled and the Recurrent Pix? 0 Plx Agcndado allows us to share an Oolco Pix, being able to choose one: date cm: 16 90 days. J6 o Pix Recorronto can be paid from 2 to 12 Pix payments on a monthly basis. What are the limits for Pix Recurrent? - lnicialmonle 0 Pin Rccorrontc will be Iimlated in RS 1 thousand for PF uansacbes (physical person) 0 RS 3 thousand for PJ transacbos (juridic person). Poupanga Awarded 2022 Sicredﬁ Vonguarda awarded 37 prizes of 5 thousand reais 7;' promoted by Centvai Sicvedi PR/SP/RJ with the aim of encouraging the skill of saving and ﬁnancial planning, the Poupanga P"-'m53'-*3 campaign 53"'-'di d“-'9°” 3° “'3' "3 A90? Sou ,".'frr_)uv_'-1 Do I3-.c:«.j1.: seventh edition on the 19th of December, (:.m_,I,,; Rm-gm with the final draw of the 95 I million prize. After the internal and external audit procedures. the symbolic delivery of the first prize took place on Friday, the 23rd/' ! 2, Christmas Eve. With weekly draws between March and December 2022. the campaign distributed 200 prembs of RS 5 thousand to the winning members. ;uu(u of these. Sicrecli Vanguarda received Iv u'.'L ".'.'u':ur m .3u._»;g 31 awards. Another sorleio {hi veiled in October for World Savings Day, in the amount of RS 500 thousand, 9 0 final draw of R3 1 million. Historically, Vanguarda has already received the prize of half a million in 2020 and one million in 2021. This time the winner of the final prize was from the cooperative Sicredi None Sul PR/SP, . _ \A(:; C.‘ Sun) h.-M.gu._A.’ -$10 JgL:n:_;1 resident of lbam (PR). ' \“'Jl.'T?().‘ TL rtupcv Ltdn 3.5 Slcrcdl 7s‘~‘El'Credi . ‘ - y AL; )3 A So?Vrnnn1rJn."€-rim? ‘flxmq, A».j .7.’ I Cnnnpos ﬁr? C nrmn :'.":(1rIFnu':j- C_.mj.1tto R.w:Jxr~u1 “rIm'C.v L ::::m dos H945 Pan .1 Business Development manager (Is Central Sicvedi PR/SP/RJ , Adriana Zandoné, 'carry out an action that actively encourages the savings habit by offering financial products and services aligned with the 116 3 '5 n'.-7v"'v driurtl member's profile and still re<onhe~ .'~ .f;n 'Jul-L' Garvg ;)xvL':= Bum)'. 'c, 0, poupxgo.-e, cﬂompe,-.,,§.|°5 pot this reafﬁrms the commitment! Sicredi with the construction of a society more eve and equal." AG -15 7 Sub Sv:LI'e* [ft ' M..H.'¢ M' Arid-.'r.r A10 35 — .'rT1np'r:':i.1.1'e :1 W'-7ldr3C:.' A/'(ire 5r'!'w'mmm AG 49 — Dvamante D Oeste Selso Degaspen : Y, ' AG 40 — Roe 00 Suite Dun-9 Cnndvotn Innmm AG 50 Cascavcl Cc-mro Anesva Terezmha Ruuugues de Mame: Para 0 president : from Sicredi Vanguarda PR/SP/RJ Aldo Dagostim. Savings is the most traditional type of investment and brings benefits to savers who believe in Sicredi. poxs is a fashion with many advantages and a starting point for those who are' 'A-4 :' V. '/ 1 -'-B? | n"—'.a"..."" starting to move or save um _ E I ~~ — ' — — dime,-,0-_ desuca A,d°_ ' — AGG61 — Cafrlos Gornes ~ garlos Cgorntes ' ersnn nramnrn I 9 n amns n uz AG 57 ~ Fol Morumbu AG 61 — Carlos Games — Coscnvel Zenavde dos Santos Morena Eduardo Fehpe Benvegmr «K L: vd 5, ntr!‘.r.*r.w IT‘. '-Yc::1rJ'r- .1': -" rmvrr'.r:_';n. r'~“'>r.'v .'~W1r'~ I ' : ' 7. ' _ “ AG 68 - Sao Jose dos Campos AG 71 A Jacarei MP5 Robotaca e Automagdo Ltda Mano dos Grogos Cacilda is ours. :5 74-,' FV1'(,"lJf>'\L\.' S IL:-nu «Kim 24 rub.' fur ':5 '."‘efn". 1'. m:' an t:'fﬁIcf >1'?-\;7r1r1":'; s':mn:nf.“'» FFn1r.5:N: AG 85 - Run away Francisco de Assis Bento Dormngos dc Miranda With more than RS 1 million in prizes, Capital Awarded campaign raises awareness of the benefits of members to increase their capital in the Swiss cooperative Sicredi is involved with the aim of strengthening the e-spirit of portent- the member's cor- nog done do nogbcio or fostering rocursos shrimping. the campaign Capital Promiado Sicrodi distributed moi: do RS 1 millions of firsts to associates in 2022. Next hand, in the foothills on the border of the Dozombro, from: the Skrodi Cooporotives' clubs in the Paranío districts. Slo Panto o Rio do Jonoiro forum covered with RS 10 million! reois. To participate in the dreams. After each contribution of RS 100 in share capital, the member received a lucky number. And for members who choose the programmed intogrolingbo, with automatic contribution. the chances are doubled. or soy. the coda RS 100 omits two sorta numbers to compete for the prizes throughout the morning. 21- Slcrodl win-win "By joining the Sécrodi, opening the sun coma corcnto. Coin capital Into 6 arm tan, we have a resource that increases the wealth of the member and his Cooperaliva, as it will become the true purpose of the business with profits and devotees, with participation in the docisbes irrportants, meetings of the preslacoes of the accounts and giving opinions and being owindo in the likes of Iovort or the biggest rowindos of the Cooperative. In addition to all the resources deposited by the members, it is the social cooiul that is administered by the Cooperative that generates revenues on the capital itwest given to the member. That's it. This airport is not a fee. It's an investment like the assodado: I'm not a patrimony or I'm not a future one. don't sue Cooperative or don't oomunldado - once how much pain the patrimony of the cooporauva. It is the most important method of increasing credit provision for other members who need it to realize a dream or expand a commercial activity in rural areas': explains the president of Sicredivanguarda, Aldo Dagostirn. In 2022, the promotion ordained more than 3 million donﬁmorosdosortoorosurtooomumrocoiudomorethanﬂs300milh6¢-semcapiulsocialos Coopetalivas oorn operaglo in the three states. This intention is linked to the granting of Cooperaﬁva credit. contributing to the regional development. "The capital belongs to the associate and gives: form: fortalocornos the model of Sicrodi's cooperative business that helps the promcwor the one we call the virtuous circle with expansion of business and generation of employment and income", concluded the president. Build TOGETHER a more prosperous society if you had the opportunity to change the way you deal with your finances. for the better? 0 st. ‘Iarcisio Ferroira. our associate in Santa Isabel. in the interior of São Paulo. faced this the possibility of the heart, he blesses and says he doesn't have anything to do with it. A civil servant, he has worked for around 20 years in the public office and was only very dissatisfied when it came to banking relationships. Little by little. the relationship with Sicredi was exposed to the world. First he opened his pussy. Then he saved his salary, started saving and is now studying other types of investments. "The service from Si¢l'0d5. for me. is five stars or more. The team has a ed.Ica« is impeccable, very patient and explains everything clearly. carefully and in simple language. And everything 100%’: says Tarcisio. Our clean Priacia Sonora. together with my ﬂomildo husband. They cslivcram prcsenlcs in our eslande at the Rural Show 2022 and shared with us their need to change cars to help with the trips of the agricultural products company. As the couple's business has an area of ​​operation in three states, they needed to renew their transport: to guarantee more efficiency in your business. The proposal for the funding of the Vektdo was approved on 07/02 and approved on 09/02. How much is a dream worth? After you responded to Iado's ear that dreams have no price. And it's the damn truth. This is why, at Sicredi, we strive to transform our associates' greatest desires into reality. 0 st. Antonio Roberto Pain. milk producer in Lagoinha (SP). the dole told us: buy a truck to travel with wife oelo Brazil. curling each other's greed and composition. The genius. dam, heard and. together. we found ourselves in the memory: solution to make the dream come true. 0 st. Antonio joined a consortium. He placed a bid, was selected and today he has the vehicle in his garage. tuning the pianos to play the ostrada. The voter placed Mun in May's hands. 9...“ 55 so.-‘hog gm ,9, contempt: traveling along the Brazilian lithoval. starting pot Ubatuba (SP) and if do“ do 9.5959 0.9650‘ Not extending to Sao Miguel do Gostoso (RN). With our Sicredi way and..g3m¢_ in-_a,3, 05 challenges to be, we also rewarded the coal with Sicredi's suitcase and suitcase. and esumos ,u9¢m peg', “min”, and fat“ 0 P1,,” 4,, “no "go 5 na totdda so that you have an unforgettable trip. a simple task. To Roberta and Caio Val! Nogueita de Lima could give this one trial experience to Cervejaria Maritima and, mainly, see it increase in size. The company. in Sid Sebastiao, in the capital None of São Paulo. a new factory and more equipment to meet growing public demands. and it was in Sicredi that he found the ideal partner to finance his imposing olapa. With increased production capacity. sales will rise by the end of 2022, more than doubling the ore-expanding investment. "Sictedi loi Onéca ﬁnancial institution willing to really listen to us, get to know us and see how it could help us, in addition to the best conditions with Caio. c‘.Yo Our associate I-lenon Pierre. from the city of Piroi. in Rio de Joneiro. when choosing to purchase an electric bicycle. lo: a muonco or the lbrought benefits por ole, to his family 0 to community. The decision provided better quality of life, savings and time for his routine, both for himself and for his wife. Cristiane Lopes, with whom she shares the bike. Furthermore, the adoption of this low-maintenance, high-efficiency Cransport means of environmental protection, a kingdom is the pore of the community. 0 Sicrodi two an important porticipogoo our tronsformoclo in Renon's life. To the sovereign of the sous planes. Our collaborators from the Pirai office provided consultative and attentive service. As a result, Renan (evidences more peace of mind when opting for a financial solution - in his case, an Enha for the financing of electrical equipment - and, in addition, support in all aspects of acquisition. Investing in sustainability is investing in an ammonhi mois prosperity for all of us. Our member Maria Lormo Morgen shared this same vision and used the rural credit made available by Sicredi to implement her LoloMo|taica energy plant. that )5 is fully operational. M-‘“* Each time it becomes more and more embarrassing, our agencies are being seen as spaces for the coexistence of societies and the community. In Ouoiis (RJ). Whoever was able to put our seat on db 5 on juiho loved the chance to appreciate a soxophone sky oprosentr. The responsive! by loi music David Jodtson. one of the members of the Corporocoo Musical do Ouolis, Q00 for the last 35 years (with rossoodo suos polo cidodo. Corporoclo is a social initiative that seeks to develop the sensitivity and creativity of children, young people and adults from Quatiense through music. Between maestro, musicians and students, the project has more than 30 members. The song also features only its pope! Ouotis. through the Sicredi program in the Community. embraced and has contributed to Corporocao Musical. As part of this partnership. We donated the folo sanophone to the project. who needed the instrument and did not have the resources to make the purchase viable. Participating in the community of your people is in Sicredi's DNA. The Ouatis team was extremely happy to be able to support this project and observe how the sound of the unity of Sicrodi and the community of cododio. Coooerativism It is everywhere and drives great goals. Mainly those that involve the procreation of our planets! Ecological bikes are just one of the projects we have implemented in the city of Coscove|lPR and are proving successful among people and are used as a means of transport in the city's main tourist attractions. We received these records from Leticia Zonchettcornononemsolo in a possession at the Municipal Logo These records are from the cnlrcga dos lratores purchased in small ‘_. Ptoducers in Sao Miguel do 'lguagu/PR with support from Sicredi. Through the Yrator Soidirio program, cooperative members can access via BRDE to In action rocanto om Igavau. In the interior of SP, we were one of the supporters of the one initiative, which brought improvements and art to the local community. Together '°' '°"' ”'°'°' "°9°“°d°' d' m'(* with Oprojetogalerias. we help to transform the uvhona country with “'5 9 '° "'°5si°"'§'ias aedendas' _ , -, more color and inspiration in the midst of the conflict. Ezorr' Job is worth generating great energy, Verde Sicredi! Doing it together for a greater margin in the composition! We have been cooperating side by side with agribusiness for 16 120 years and following the evolutions of the field. including the insertion of women in charge of large and small productions. like Jaqueline Pletsdr. our associate from Ilaipulsndia - PR. Trust is one of the most important pillars in our relationship with our associates. She gets very darn. for example. in the story we have been building with businessman José Mauricio do Oliveira Panaino. Josb was one of our first associates in Lidice, Rio Claro district. in Rio de Janeiro. Since I was sick. the feeling of trust s6 crcsccu. You are always sure to find with us personalized service and financial solutions aligned with the growth of everyone - associates. community and Sicredi. The businessman identified a complete partner in the cooperative to support him in his ventures and needs. through solutions such as invostimonos. ﬁnanciamonlo do voiculos 9 also solar energy. launch it for your home and as for your business - imagcm gas station case. It did, like, Sicnedi. yours main financial institution. Qutr share his history with the dress’ Entrc om cantalo com sou gerenu-. ole lrd director voré pom area do comunlcngdo. _ ACTIVE _ A“V°5 _t°t9!_5 9 31.» I2.-"‘2()21 31.» 12 ='zo22~. 5,937 4» 535.255 24.06% 2020 - 155.153 2020 - 6.614.202 Outms Crediros 243.922 343.200 ao,7o9u - ms p. e r o - . - . , . 2°” “Z5” 2°” “M95” ?3‘T'.;: *°.i2°3°S""c‘.... ’I§é’£y. ‘}'§9‘f29 §;‘’23°«. 2022 ' 73°-522 2°22 ' 7733-030 Pormcnente 221.413 175.542 -20.22% km 1022.0 Sc(rod:1/an9ua'da A coopomtrva two um numomo ram‘ 5 M3 650 7 359 my 2B‘,3ni rnccmou 0 one cow: mm; dc wpcuot a RS 2.8 tnlhdes mm 2022. 180 mu! Cl$$0C:0ﬂ0'S /uzvndo mcmando o ano odnnnmrunaa pﬂssjvo porn no wu quadm social. man do RS 11 when     31./12.-‘Z021 31./|2g"202Z  5:; ‘ Depbsttos 3.370.845 3.674.986 9.0296 Relaqdes Interflnanceiras 1.1601808 2.354086 67.69% Outms Ob ‘a 09s 309.1412 538.7214 710.2696                        ‘°"°"'° P""[%3,‘J2 """"° me.  '5‘ C"é‘m° Rese vas 395.302 1:76.057 19.52% 2019 - 2.468.949 Z019 - 442-585 Sohrtrvsﬁcumulados 42.770 _ 37249 42,919» 2020 - 3.542.827 2020 - 511572 Total 5 7:43 650 7.359151 23.13% 2021 - 4.706.734 2021 — 559.855 nfcuksos 1o1A]sADM  2022 - 5-937-379 2022 - 797.385 31.«12..»2o21 31.42.-*zo2z Min: do Balance 5,743,650 7,359,181 28,1396 5 _ on l.'.'7|(§l'l I. 1 . ..'."., . ,.'?~°..'.'.'.'.'.§'. ....S'.......?.;'5§§'2'.'1:.”;”.E2'£."a'§ coowooco-s zsmsoo smaos mm ,5 ,,,,,,°“ W, ,m,5o$ 791 mmm cm rtsulta-tat dov-do Resources of BNDES 780,797 1,095,094 40,2 a;;s' Poupanca. HF 9 Prev. 1362,002 1,373 916 0.87% ,,,,_,9,|,,m,,° Mb, nmv”, LCA 367,501 1,304,839 255,0696 Total 8 253 950 11,133 030 311.88% Resource scams eoesrmnfides , 31x‘12u'2OZ1 J1-v'12~'ZO22 ‘aw Ad""'"'5"‘°d°5 Resounded mmzas romfs raosm 1,223,457 55.75% 2019 - 3_1q7_oz5 2019 - 73092 From those lamas’; 638,551 1,072,831 68.01% _ 4 - Result Surplus 141963 150 626 610% 2021 — 5,584,986 2021 - 141,963 2022 — 7,106,248 2022 - 150,626 A coopnatwa rnr rrrou a A Sorrl-d1 Vote rnttfilov 2022 Ian” 00 comm' 2553996 or offering a person with a msutmaa Lfquodo or Rs ‘Nos 6 290 5 ‘'78 _ '2 91% at Rs 7 who“ ¢'1‘:;:c°::):: Reservation 199017651. 0 Rec.Pn.=1 . 83/177 77. 735 -6.88% mm. 0., (fnﬁrig ,.o;;m.-,.; Value of the AGO's contribution (result » net. Pm) 42,770 37 249 -12.9196 Social Fund 1,258 1,095 42.96% ?2é- Sicredi ED 0 Q