2 Annual Report 2021 Follow us on social media: /sicredisul sc /sicredi.sulsc Sicredi Sul SC /sicredisulsc Administrative Headquarters: Rua Antônio Cardoso de Aguiar, 195 - b. Próspera, Criciúma - SC. | (48) 3403-2800 Sicredi Agency Centro: Av. Rui Barbosa, 345 - Centro, Criciúma/SC. | (48) 3403-3100 Sicredi Rio Maina Agency: Av. dos Imigrantes, 920 - Distrito Rio Maina, Criciúma – SC | (48) 3442-2029 Sicredi Fourth Line Agency: Rod. Luiz Rosso, 10991 - Fourth Line, Criciúma – SC | (48) 3437-2675 Sicredi Próspera Agency: R. Gen. Osvaldo Pinto da Veiga, 1433 - Próspera, Criciúma – SC | (48) 3403-2850 Sicredi Metropolitan Agency: R. Cel. Pedro Benedet, 333 - Room 1 - Center, Criciúma – SC | (48) 3431-3800Agência Sicredi Tubarão Centro: Av. Dr. Rodovalho, 228 - Centro, Tubarão – SC | (48) 3631-0500 Sicredi São Martinho Agency: SC-370, km4 s/n - São Martinho, Tubarão – SC | (48) 3906-0500 Sicredi Agency Oficinas: R. Altamiro Guimarães, 988 - Oficinas, Tubarão – SC | (48) 3621-6400 Sicredi Içara Agency: Rua Vitória, 278 - Centro, Içara/SC. | (48) 3467-2300 Sicredi Forquilhinha Agency: Al. Felipe Arns, 195 - Centro, Forquilhinha – SC | (48) 3463-8802 Sicredi Morro da Fumaça Agency: R. Pref. Paulino Bif, 90 - Centro, Morro da Fumaça – SC | (48) 3434-6800 Sicredi Araranguá Agency: Rua Dr. Virgulino de Queiroz, 311 - Centro, Araranguá – SC | (48) 3521-0600 Sicredi Branch Braço do Norte: Av. Felipe Schmidt, 1509 - Centro, Braço do Norte North – SC | (48) 3651-1150 Sicredi Agency Balneário Rincão: Avenida Leoberto Leal, 1123 - Centro, Balneário Rincão – SC | (48) 3468-2025 Sicredi Imbituba Agency: Av. Santa Catarina, 636 - Centro, Imbituba – SC | (48) 3355 -8050 Sicredi Orleans Agency: R. Antônio da Silva Cascaes, 210 - Centro, Orleans – SC | (48) 3466-6150 Sicredi Urussanga Agency: R. Minerasil, s/n - Centro, Urussanga – SC | (48) 3441-1400 Sicredi Siderópolis Agency: R. Siderurgica, 25 - Centro, Siderópolis – SC | (48) 3440-0250/ Criciúma / Tubarão / Other AgenciesOur AgenciesSummary »Leadership Message ................................ ................................... 04 »Our Cooperative ........... .................................................... ................. 08 »Regional Operations .......................... .................................................... .09 »Highlights 2021 .............................................. .................................... 10 »Prizes and Recognitions ................................................ ........... 12 Relationship and Cooperativism ................................... .................... 14 Responsible Solutions ........................... .............................................. 17 Local Development . .................................................... .................... 22 Growth in 2021 .......................... .................................................... 27 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Coordination and review: Giovana Pedroso Comunicação Responsible journalist – Giovana Pedroso JP 06051/SC Layout: Ana Flávia Mazzuco Guidi Photos: Everton Miranda, Cleber Bonotto, Bruno Mendes, Imprensa Criciúma Esporte Clube, Imprensa Bairro da Juventude and Sicredi archive. Graphic design: Sicredi 4 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Message from the President For many of our members, 2021 was a year of recovery. For our cooperative, the twelve months were marked by the continued growth of the financial and social indicators that guide our work. We operate with the awareness that financial results are not the main purpose of a Cooperative Financial Institution. Therefore, we increasingly place the associate at the center of the business. But by investing in the qualification of our employees, by seeking to practice the cooperative principles of interest in the community and education, training and information, and By delivering financial solutions suited to the business owner's profile and moment in life, we not only build the most positive social and satisfaction indicators in the history of Sicredi Sul SC. We also achieved progress in all financial objectives. Using the same analysis basis, we also grew 45% in the rural credit portfolio, 21% in savings, 35% in total resources, 29% in net equity, 25% in results and our associate base grew by 16%. Excellent indicators for the cooperative, for the member and for the entire region where we operate, as the resources managed in the south of Santa Catarina by Sicredi Sul SC remain in this same region. To materialize some of these numbers, which we seek to detail throughout this report, I quote the 24% growth in our cooperative's credit portfolio in 2021 compared to the period of 2020. Building more prosperous societies in the 45 municipalities of southern Santa Catarina is our goal purpose. And to fulfill it even more strongly, in 2021 we also arrived in Orleans, Siderópolis and Cocal do Sul with the installation of agencies. We implement our complete service model in them, which provides members with a physical experience: physical, modern and collaborative branches, with remote channels that can be accessed anywhere. In these three new cities, and in the other ten where we operate with physical agencies, the community feels the social impacts of our performance. In 2021, the Social Fund covered 80 projects of collective interest, from entities in more than ten municipalities. 5 Message from the leadership Aloísio Westrup President of Sicredi Sul SC We continue together, cooperating and prospering! Happy reading! The challenge for 2022 remains the same as what has always inspired our work: to grow without losing sight of cooperative ideals. Deliver financial results that make our societies prosper, and social projects that also contribute to this purpose. It is with joy that I share all these advances built with many hands during the year 2021. Our boards of directors, supervisors, executive board, core coordinators, collaborators and associates, make up the team that worked directly or indirectly to make all this possible . In addition to the Social Fund, we are pleased to deliver the digital cooperative education platform “Sicredi Ensina”. In partnership with Satc, from now on our members and the entire community can take online credit cooperative and ﬁnancial education courses. With the platform, we trained 124 new members in the Crescer Cooperative education program. Remotely, we also held our Assembly. The first virtual event in our history. Our financial education actions for young people, children and adults, reached 725 people through the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis. The training took place through the platform Sicredi Teach and also in person. By the way, face-to-face actions also guided our social activities. Initiatives such as C Day is every day and Gente que Coopera, Dona, reached thousands of people with the solidarity and volunteerism of our teams and associates. 6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC The continuity of the Covid-19 pandemic created an additional challenge for the work of continuing to develop the cooperative and meet the numerous and growing needs of our associates and collaborators, living, in parallel, with the expectation of the arrival of the so-called “new normal”. The acceleration in the use of virtual tools and the advancement of digital solutions for financial products and services, driven by the restrictions still imposed by the pandemic, were a welcome boost. New features helped to replace, often to the user's advantage, old habits of the old service model, which was much more face-to-face. The challenge that was imposed was to train our employees and support our associates to support a new service model that combines the offering of digital channels with agencies transformed into physical spaces much more focused on relationships and financial consultancy, although still with remnants of a transactional model . We call this model “physical” care. It worked out. We implemented this new service model in all of our nineteen branches and in all communities where we are present, with signiﬁcant improvements in the member satisfaction indicator (NPS), reaching 77% of fully satisfied members. Message from the Board This and many other relationship indicators place Sicredi Sul SC among the best in our system, and explain much of the cooperative’s growth over recent years. These indicators, accompanied by excellent performance on all planning fronts 2021 financial year, confirm that we are on the right track. The basis of economic participation, one of the universal principles of cooperativism, reached a record rate of 4.93 financial solutions per member. Erli Silveira Lima Executive Director of Sicredi Sul SCassociados grew 16% compared to 2020, confirming the trend of increasing adherence of people and companies to the cooperative's work. The volume of resources raised increased 35% compared to 2020, attesting to the confidence deposited by members and savers in the value proposition and security presented by the cooperative. Raising resources from the member base represents the main source of resources for the cooperative, allowing the expansion of the credit portfolio by 24% during the year. Economic and financial support, combined with the increasingly effective social participation of the cooperative in the communities where it operates, allows it to continue to pursue, increasingly steadfastly, its purpose of helping to “build more prosperous societies”.7 Message from the leadership This entire virtuous circle allowed the growth of ﬁnancial results by 25% and boosted the growth of the cooperative’s net worth by 29%, guaranteeing more solidity and sustainability to its business in the coming years. We still have a lot to do. We need to continue working ﬁrmly and collectively, integrating associates, collaborators and communities, so that we can all continue reaping the fruits that cooperativism offers us.8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Our cooperative Sicredi Sul SC 19 agencies Net income of R$ 33.1 million R$ 151.1 million in net equity More than 30 0 ﬁnancial solutions 28.9 thousand members 227 employees in 13 municipalities R$ 1 billion in total deposits R$ 883. 3 million balance in credit portfolio or R$ 1.2 billion in total resources Our cooperation Data December 2021active in number s A Our headquarters are located in Criciúma. It is through it that we support, control and direct the nineteen agencies located in thirteen cities. Three of these municipalities started to have branches in 2021, when we opened service spaces in Cocal do Sul, Siderópolis and Orleans. A growth that continues with planning, without losing sight of the ideals that gave rise to us, but with a focus on taking the Sicredi brand and financial cooperatives to new cities in the south Santa Catarina. We have existed for over 22 years to meet the economic and social needs of our members. In 1999, when we were born from the project of a group of businessmen from the clothing sector, at the Criciúma Business Association, Acic, there were just over twenty of us. Nowadays, reaching 45 municipalities in the south of Santa Catarina, from Imbituba to Passo de Torres, we are already more than 25 thousand. A growth that is the result of the work of the founders and everyone who followed, continuing our story. Today we are one of more than 100 cooperatives that are part of Sicredi, the first cooperative ﬁnancial institution in Brazil. We are part of a national system, made up of more than 5 million members who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network that supports its prosperity with responsible financial solutions. Being part of a System that has more than 119 years of history, helps us to serve the member's financial life entirely, with the solidity and experience of a brand that carries the birth of financial cooperatives in Brazil, in its DNA. Sicredi in numbers*: *data Dec/2021. R$197.6 billion in assets under managementR$130 billion in depositsR$4.7 billion in results generatedR$25.1 billion in net equityR$5.5 million in associatesRegional operations, National Presence9 Regional Operations Legend Cities with operations Sicredi Sul SCAMRR PA TO GODF MG ES RJSPMS PR SC RSBAPICE RN PB PE AL SEMAAP AC RO MT10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Highlights in 20 21 Orleans and Sider opolis We arrived in Cocal do Sul, Orleans and Siderópolis Participation in Agr opo nte 2021 CDL ​​Partnership Criciúma Through an agreement with the Chamber of Retail Managers of Criciúma, we were able to offer our members who are members of the entity a discount when using our card machine. The partnership has been taken to the entity in other cities in the south of Santa Catarina. The Fair Agribusiness and Family Farming took place again in 2021 and we, for the seventh consecutive year, were present with a stand and sponsorship of the event. Our teams were present welcoming members and presenting our work to visitors. The second half of 2021 was marked by the opening of three branches in the coal region. The first delivery took place in September, in the city of Orleans. One of the structure's differences is the covered garage with 15 parking spaces. parking. The architectural project integrated into the city's landscape and beautified one of the main corners of downtown Orleans. In October, we arrived in Siderópolis. The inauguration event was attended by municipal authorities and leaders. The structure also adopted the collaborative and modern model of Sicredi branches, offering the city's members an environment for meetings and work, in addition to having ten parking spaces. Cocal do Sul welcomed the our 19th agency in December. There are more than 400 square meters of built area, eight parking spaces, bicycle parking, accessibility, lounge with coffee and coworking spaces that can be used by members for meetings. The branch's opening hours, as well as others, are extended: from 10am to 5pm. 11 Highlights in 2021 Criciúma Esport e Clube and Sicr edi Sul SC: a partnership is born The 2021 season of Criciú ma Esporte Clube, the largest team in Santa Catarina in terms of number of current members, had our support. The team competed in the Santa Catarina championship, in addition to the Brazilian series C and Copa do Brasil. All matches had our brand on the shoulder of the tricolor shirt, as well as plaques in the stadium. Right time in Balneá rio Rincão Tribute to the municipalities where we operate The anniversaries of the cities where we are present with agencies were different in 2021. On each commemorative date, we display the testimonials of associates who live in in the birthday city. In the audiovisual, they told how, through their work, they contributed to making the place where they lived more prosperous. The “Most Prosperous Cities” project was shown on our social media. We installed our first clock in the south of Santa Catarina on Avenida Leoberto Leal, in Balneário Rincão. In addition to the correct time, the equipment also informs the temperature and becomes a service for the city's residents and vacationers. A new agency in the neighborhood ro Próspera, in Cr iciúma The reopening of the Sicredi Próspera Agency took place in May. The Criciumense neighborhood already had a service structure in place since 2013. The new branch is larger, aligned with Sicredi's new standard of service spaces and has extended in-person service hours, from 10am to 5pm. The new address is at Rua General Osvaldo Pinto da Veiga, 433. 12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Throughout 2021, the System was recognized through awards. Here, we highlight some of them Forbes: World’s Best Banks 2021 In April 2021, Sicredi achieved seventh position in the World’s Best Banks ranking, prepared by Forbes in partnership with the statistics company Statista. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. Exame Melhor es e Maiores 2021 Awards and recognition Through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, one of the structures that make up the Financial Institution Cooperative, we ranked 15th among the largest banks that are part of the Exame Melhores e Maiores guide. Época Negócios 360° In Época Negócios 360°, a guide prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral, the Cooperative Financial Institution ranked 8th in the sectoral ranking of banks, a position influenced by its 2nd place ranking in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. Recognition from BNDES Sicredi's good performance in the credit lines made available by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) in 2020, to minimize the impacts caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, was recognized at the beginning of 2021 by the “Incentive Project for Financial Agents” of the development bank. 13 Awards and Recognitions Focus: Annual ranking of projections of the Central Bank The Central Bank publishes an annual ranking of the most prominent financial institutions in economic projections throughout the year. Sicredi has been featured in this ranking for 5 consecutive years. In 2021 it was no different. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi won second place in the IPCA category for the Annual Medium Term indicator (score 8.3). In terms of Exchange Rate, Sicredi Asset ranked fifth in the Short Term Annual category (score 9.6). Value 1000 The Institution ranked 9th in the classification of the 100 Largest Banks in the Yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. FGV Fund Guide Award Sicredi, through its Asset, won first place in the Money Market category for Specialist Assets in the 2021 edition of the FGV Fund Guide, organized by the Center for Financial Studies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas. The winners were chosen by a committee made up of professors and researchers with academic and applied experience in investments, which analyzed the investment funds of financial institutions. Investment Fund Value Guide With strategies that value long-term assets, profitability well above their benchmarks and active management, funds from different risk and volatility categories, Sicredi has managed to remain among the top 20% since 2019. The evaluation is from the Valor Investment Funds Guide of Valor Econômico.Broadcast Award Projections Sicredi was highlighted in the Broadcast Projeções Award. The institution ranked 6th in the General Top and 7th in the Basic Top. In its 15th edition, the award is based on the AE Projeções ranking and aims to reward institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators come closest to reality. Relationship and cooperativism15 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Program Grow online Digital Assembly 20 21Relationship and cooperativism Prioritizing the health and safety of our members and employees, in 2021 we held the first digital assembly in the history of our cooperative. Through a monitoring and voting platform provided by Fundação Sicredi, 839 members eligible to vote participated. One of the new features of 2021 was the launch of the Sicredi Ensina Platform, which brings together, among other courses, the Crescer Cooperative Education Program. Since then, members can carry out training in an online and structured manner with all the content that was previously shared in person. Crescer highlights the history, principles and business model of cooperativism and Sicredi. The implementation of the online training program facilitated and increased member participation. Since its launch, more than 124 members and 12 non-members have completed the training. Sicredi has a management model that values ​​the participation of more than 5 million members. Locally, our cooperative is no different. Our more than 28 thousand members are encouraged to play their role as users and, above all, as business owners. This participation initially takes place through the core assembly and the ordinary general assembly. At these meetings, the member transparently monitors the cooperative's economic and social results, approving the rendering of accounts, choosing its directors and other items on the agenda. Broadcast of the Assembly Digital 2021At the assemblies, the cooperative's representatives are also defined as board members, supervisors and core coordinators. All of them are associates, elected by other members with the purpose of representing them. And it is to qualify the participation of members elected to be nucleus coordinators or advisors that the Crescer Program exists. It is through the Program that information is shared about financial cooperativism and the model of Sicredi’s performance. Associates (elect) Core Coordinators (elect) (select) Board of Directors C ooperative Board of Directors C ooperative Fiscal Council Board 16 Relationships and Cooperatives New fiscal council Governance In the 2021 assembly process, our members elected the new fiscal council. Those elected will serve the term from 2021 to 2023. The supervisory board exercises the role of supervision and control in the cooperative. Its activities cover matters of nature accounting, the actions of administrators and the fulfillment of their legal and statutory duties. It is elected at the Ordinary General Assembly and is made up of six members. Staff Substitutes Jorge Oenning de Souza Olívio Boeira Ramiro Osvaldo HeidemannÁlvaro Luza Jucemar Rampinelli Luiz Henrique Peruchi CristianoThe ﬁscal advisors of Sicredi Sul SC mandate 2021 - 2023 are: Responsible solutions18 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Agencies: Service channels are a practical alternative to take care of the financial lives of our associates wherever they are. Internet banking, app, telephone services, ATMs, Banco24Horas Network and accredited agents are some possibilities. And more than ever, our agencies continue to be channels for financial advice and new connections. In addition to extended opening hours, from 10am to 5pm, our members can use meeting rooms and coworking environments to work and promote business meetings. The spaces are large, modern and equipped, in addition to having coffee machines. Businessman Fellipe Netto Cancellier uses the Criciúma Centro Agency meeting room every month. It has become routine to reserve space for company management meetings. “We feel really good. Booking is quick and hassle-free. In addition to the comfort of the room, the special coffee and the attention of the team that serves us here when we arrive”, summarizes Cancellier. The associate also highlights that, by being more present at the agency, he is able to establish a genuine relationship with the service team. “It’s a relationship that goes beyond financial life. They don't offer me a product because it's a goal, Sicredi understands my business situation, my needs, to offer the solution that is more. Agency meeting rooms can be reserved for member use via WhatsApp (51) 3358 4770 or via direct contact with the manager. Meeting rooms can be reserved by members for business meetingsSpaces for coffee, coworking and new connections.assertive”, highlights the entrepreneur in the segment of inputs for cycling. To reserve a meeting room at one of our nineteen branches, members can contact their business manager informing them of the desired day and time. It is also possible to book via Sicredi WhatsApp, on the phone (51) 3358 4770, using the space reservation option indicated there. For you > Card credit and debit > Overdraft > Personal credit, vehicle credit, advance payments and more > Savings and other investments > Vehicle, life and home insurance > Auto, services, home consortium > PensionsFor your company > Credit > Cards > Insurance > Payments > Receipts > Investments > PensionsFor your agribusiness > Credit for funding, investment and marketing for various crops > Credit for investment with transfer from BNDES > Savings and other investment solutions > Insurance for your plantation, machinery and equipment > Machinery and real estate consortium19 Responsible Solutions Investments that yield more money Cooperating to grow together with our associates and the community is what moves and makes us achieve results. And this makes a difference for the business owner and for society, as the resources invested and the results generated remain in our area of ​​activity. In 2021, Our investment area continued working towards this objective. To deliver even more qualified service and solutions to members who wanted to save or invest, we invested in generating regional content to answer questions, in addition to frequent training for the branches' service teams. Nationally, 2021 was also a year of signiﬁcant advances in the area for Sicredi. In addition to the already known risk classifications and awards that we establish themselves as a solid and profitable Financial Institution, we strengthened the investment team and expanded our portfolio. More than offering products and services, we take care of the financial lives of our members. To achieve this, we have more than 300 solutions for individuals, companies and agribusiness. 20 Across the country, we provide our members with the Análise do Dia podcast, which contains a daily assessment of the market carried out by the Sicredi team. On the website sicredi.com.br/ investments, it is also possible to access the content page that contains updated analyzes on the financial market, weekly economic notes and the monthly economic summary.People who ask, investAnalysis of the Day and Financial Market Analysis In 2021, our regional content board, People who Ask Investe gained strength. More than ten videos were produced that clarified doubts sent by members. We cover topics such as social capital, investor profiles, private pensions and investment funds. What was new was the participation of several business managers from agencies across the south of Santa Catarina. Content for Investors In 2021, we started to encourage managers who work with investment portfolios to obtain the CPA 20 certification, further qualifying our advisory service. We have excellent ratings from the main credit agencies in the market: Moody's, SeP Global and Fitch Ratings . Credit volume for MEI and MPE: Number of entrepreneurs (MEI and MPE) with credit granted: R$ 185.9 million R$ 1.7 thousand Volume of resources allocated to family farming: R$ 21.1 million Amount financed for solar energy: R$ 8.1 millionNumber of members served with credit aimed at family farming: 176Positive impact: economic, social and environmental.20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC21 Responsible Solutions Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis Further materializing the principle of education, training and information, in 2021 we promoted more meetings of Sicredi's financial education program, Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis. Throughout the year, 725 people were reached through in-person or remote actions that focused not only on organizational and financial planning methods, but on behavioral aspects that lead to unhealthy consumption habits. All of this reaffirms that, in addition to financial solutions, it is our role to promote education and the health of life of our associates. The 725 participants in the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis in 2021 represent a 58.75% increase compared to the same period of the previous year. 58.75% growth in the number of participants in the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis in 2021. 58.%75 Online consultancy in partnership with Sebrae In addition to financial solutions and service channels, our commitment also involves promoting education to develop our businesses associates. In partnership with Sebrae, in 2020 we started the “Online Consulting” project, which promotes diagnostic meetings and remote consultancies with entrepreneurs on the most relevant topics for their business. The meetings are led by consultants accredited by Sebrae and are completely free for our members. Members classified as micro or small companies can participate. In 2021, Sicredi Sul SC and Sebrae Online Consultancy reached 37 members classified as micro or small companies. Local development lSomos Great Place to Work Sicredi received the GPTW seal in 2021, which classifies the company as an excellent place to work. The achievement, based on the methodology and guided by the global consultancy Great Place to Work, is the result of climate research, carried out with employees across the country. Participation, which was voluntary, received regional responses from 197 employees and resulted in an index confidence of 86%. We know that the investment made in the training and qualification of our employees directly impacts the relationship with our associates and knowledge in the communities where we are present. Therefore, 2021 was another year of continuously looking at the experience of our teams. Among the main training initiatives, we highlight the Potentials Program, aimed at new leaders and carried out in partnership with two cooperatives in the Sicredi. Another front was training in emotional intelligence for managers, in addition to courses delivered by the Sicredi Corporate University, such as Disruptive Leadership, Agro School, Career and Culture Program. Regionally, our cooperative's content leaders also facilitated training on financial solutions and other topics.23 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Promote people's development We invested 319 hours to qualify the teams that they operate in all areas, contributing R$ 131.2 thousand. Aug/2021 - Aug/2022 New Onboarding We restructured the onboarding process and implemented it in April 2021. It was renamed Start Coop and takes place in two stages: in the first, the new employee completes the contextual module, when they get to know Jeito Sicredi de Ser with content axes that include people, cooperativism, business and transformation. In the second stage, carried out after 60 days of joining the cooperative, the employee knows the technical module, promoted by the development, credit and administrative teams. Indicators Sicredi's main social responsibility initiative saw a gradual return to the classroom with face-to-face activities in 2021. More than 460 preschool and elementary school students at the Paulo Pedro Petruzzelis school, located in Criciúma, were reached with the initiative during the school year. The Program takes place with its own methodology, based on in the school curriculum and developed through cooperative educational projects. Based on an exploratory question, going through expeditions A União Faz a Vida Program - Projects presented by students in the Exhibitions held in the first and second semesters.24 Local Development A União Faz a Vida ProgramAmount invested in training: R$ 131.2 thousand 319 hours 227 73 Training hours: Quantity. of employees until Dec/2021: Quantity. of employees hired in 2021: 38% 47%3% 5% 7% Over 51 years old41 to 50 years old31 to 40 years old21 to 30 years oldUp to 20 years old Number of men and women:Age group: • Men: 35.24% • Women: 64.76% investigations that culminate in projects presented to the community in a biannual exhibition, students become protagonists of the teaching-learning process, enhancing their creativity and strengthening notions of citizenship and cooperation. In 2021, students held two project exhibitions, in which they could present to the school and external community, all learning built inside and outside the classroom. Of the initiatives sent for consideration by managers and core coordinators, 80 were approved and supported. Apae Tubarão25 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC People who cooperate, donateWe know that together, we can be agents of change. Therefore, at the 2021 digital assembly, our members approved the allocation of R$390.5 thousand, from the results obtained in 2020, to support community initiatives. The Sicredi Sul SC Social Fund 2021 received registrations from more than 100 projects. We believe and live the seventh principle of cooperativism, which provides for interest in the community. Therefore, in addition to initiatives such as the Social Fund and the A União Faz a Vida Program, in 2021 we created the People who cooperate, donate program. With it, we encourage blood donation throughout the year. Through a partnership signed with the Hemocentro Regional de Criciúma, Hemosc, and the At the Hemosc de Tubarão unit, we motivated 54 candidates for donation, 49 of which were completed. The highlight of the action occurred on June 14th, World Blood Donor Day. On this date, special kits were made available to donors mobilized by us who went to Hemosc. In Tubarão, with the implementation of the Sobre Rodas project, the Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional, Apae, managed to acquire seven new wheelchairs to serve the students. “Most of our students come to Apae with the transport offered by us. However, space for wheelchair users is limited and many need to use normal seats. As soon as they get here, they need quality wheelchairs”, explains Nelson José Gomes Siqueira, administrative director of Apae de Tubarão. For him, support from the Social Fund had a direct impact on the safety, transportation and quality of life of Apae students. In Criciúma, the Learning to play and social well-being project, from Associação Academia de Futebol, purchased shirts, shorts and socks for more than one hundred children and teenagers who train football in the organization's centers. “We do much more than train athletes, we train citizens, but always with a lot of struggle. Sicredi’s support was fundamental for the project in 2021”, says Claudiomir dos Santos, responsible for the project. Any of us can be a natural volunteer. And being supportive of others is being human. Almir Fernandes, volunteer at multi-institutional and red cross teamC-Day is every day26 Local Development International Cooperative Day is an annual celebration of the movement, held on the first Saturday in July. On this date, cooperatives across Brazil promote Cooperation Day. The project was born in 2009 and today is an ongoing initiative of the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives with the aim of developing social responsibility actions. Since 2021, Cooperate Day has been adopted by us as an initiative that permeates the activities of the agencies throughout the second semester. With an organized calendar, the teams mobilized to collect food, cleaning materials, hygiene products, toys, food for stray animals, toys, geriatric diapers, among other items. Deliveries were destined for entities in the region, selected by the teams themselves. At the launch of the action, held in July, the multi-team volunteer institutional and red cross, Almir Fernandes, gave a talk to employees. At the meeting, he inspired our teams with his example. “Any of us can be a natural volunteer. And being supportive of others is being human”, said Almir during the meeting that was the kick-off of the “C-Day is every day” action. Araranguá Agency More than 55 families registered at Casa Madre Regina were provided with more than 100 basic baskets of personal hygiene products and meat. Imbituba Agency More than 3,500 geriatric diapers were collected for Casa de Reposo Lanche da Amizade. Forquilhinha Agency More than 100 basic food baskets for needy families registered with the Social Assistance Reference Center, Cras, and the Associação Mãos Amigas. Following the main guidelines of cooperativism, especially “transparency in management”, we present the economic-financial and patrimonial situation of the Cooperative. The growth achieved reflects our work aimed at growth and expansion.27 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Sul SC Point the camera on your cell phone and check out our 2021 financial statements or visit sicredi.com.br/sulsc. Our Growth in 2021 NPS - Net Promoter Score Member satisfaction indicator: Financial solutions index per member: 77% 4.93 TOTAL MEMBERS 201921,724,928.9 2020 202116% 15% TOTAL CREDIT 2019R$ 428.6 millionmillion R$ 711 .8R$ 883.3 2020 202124% 66% 28 Our Growth in 2021 TOTAL DEPOSITS 2019R$459 millionmillionbillion R$778.9R$1 2020 202130% 70% SAVINGS 2019R$50.2 millionmillionmillion R$78.6R$95.5 2020 202121% 57% TOTAL RESOURCES 201 9R$ 606.8 millionmillionbillion R$955.3R$1.2 2020 202135% 57% RURAL AND TARGETED CREDIT 2019R$93.5 millionmillionmillion R$139.5R$202.4 2020 202145% 49% SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 2019R$87.8 millionmillionR$ 116, 9R$ 151.1 2020 202129% 33% 2019 RESULTR$ 20.8 millionmillionmillion R$ 26.7R$ 33.4 2020 202125% 29% sicr edi.c om.brSAC: 0800 724 7220 0800 724 0525 - Hearing or Speech Impaired Telephone services: 3003 4770 - Capitals and Metropolitan Regions (cost of one local call) 0800 724 4770 - Other regionsOmbudsman: 0800 646 2519sicredi.com.br /sulsc/sicredisul sc /sicredi.sulsc Sicredi Sul SC /sicredisulsc