Approved at the Ordinary Meeting of the Board of Directors on 11/22/2023 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT OF VALE DO RIO PARDO Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS REGULATIONS OF THE EDUCATION INCENTIVE PROGRAM Approved at the Ordinary Meeting of Board of Directors of 11/22/2023 Classification of information: Unrestricted use OF OBJECTIVES Art. 1º The Cooperative of C Revenue, Savings and Investment of Vale do Rio Pardo – Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS (Sicredi VRP), this regulation provides for the granting of scholarships that will benefit its members. ORIGIN AND DESTINATION OF RESOURCES Art. 2 This program will be funded with resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund – FATES, a fund that can be used to pay for Technical Secondary Education. Art. 3 The Sicredi VRP scholarship has the purpose of providing investment in Education for its Members and their families. PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS Art. 4 The Sicredi VRP Education Incentive Program advises that the use of the resources received by the scholarship recipient is to cover the costs of their school activities. Art. 5º The contemplated students will have the benefit granted for the period of development of the technical course, being renewed annually according to the defined criteria in this regulation. Art. 6 The value of the scholarship and the number of scholarships awarded annually will be decided by the Sicredi VRP Board of Directors. Art. 7 The Cooperative will preferably grant a single scholarship per economic group/family. Sole paragraph: At the discretion of the judging committee, more than one scholarship may be granted to the same family unit, as long as the need and insufficiency of the beneficiaries are demonstrated. Art. 8° Any and all communications between Sicredi VRP and cooperative candidates for the scholarship, including information, calls, announcements of results, will be made through the following means of communication: email and WhatsApp registered in the candidate's registration. § Single. It is the candidates' sole responsibility to comply with the deadlines established in these regulations. METHOD OF ACCESS Art. 9° Scholarships will be made available through a selection process among cooperative members duly registered and who meet the following requirements: Approved at the Ordinary Meeting of the Board of Directors on 11/22/2023 Classification of information: Unrestricted Use I - Students interested in technical high school courses, whose parents , responsible or themselves are associated with the SICREDI VRP Cooperative until December 31, 202 2. II - The scholarship can be used by beneficiaries who are enrolled in technical secondary schools regulated by contract with an educational institution that is duly registered with the competent bodies. Art. 10 The selection process will take into account the definitions of Art. 9 and an analysis of the criteria listed below: a) Students enrolled or interested in enrolling in technical high schools. b) History of social and financial relationship with the cooperative; c) Socioeconomic analysis of the family; Paragraph sole: The Board of Directors may, at its discretion, regulate the criteria set out in the Caput, constituting annexes to this regulation. Art. 1 1 The deadline for registration will begin in December and end on December 30th, annually. Art. 1 2 The selection will be carried out in the months of January and February by a committee appointed by the cooperative. Art. 13 Registration will be made exclusively by filling out an electronic form, available on the this regulation, through the link https://bit.ly/PlanteOFuturo, published and shared in the Cooperative's communication media. § 1 The result of the selection will be published on the Cooperative website https://www.sicredi.com.br/coop/valedoriopardors/ and through a statement via WhatsApp registered during registration. § 2 The selected student must join the cooperative, if he is not already one. § 3 Failure to comply with the previous paragraph by March 30th, will result in the loss of the scholarship, resulting in the member who is on the waiting list being called, in the order of selection. § 4 The candidate's registration will imply knowledge and acceptance of the rules and conditions established in these Regulations, in relation to which he cannot claim ignorance. § 5 Candidates not included in the current cycle will be placed on the waiting list and will have priority for consideration in the following cycle. Approved at the Ordinary Meeting of the Board of Administration of 11/22/2023 Information classification: Unrestricted use OF PAYMENT Art. 1 4 The student must be associated with Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo. Payment of the Scholarship will be made through credit to the scholarship student's current account maintained at the Cooperative. § 1 The value of the scholarships will be deposited in 4 (four) installments during the year, until the 30th of March, June, September and December. Art. 1 5 The value of the scholarship will be credited upon presentation of proof of school attendance at the end of each academic quarter and presentation of the approval report at the end of the academic year by the school to which the scholarship holder is enrolled. Art. 1 6 The member on the waiting list, who has already started the course, and is invited to take up the vacancy of the withdrawing fellow, will be entitled to the scholarship from the month in which he took up the vacancy of the withdrawing fellow. IMPEDIMENTS / LOSS OF BENEFIT Art. 1 7 The benefit will be canceled if the quarterly school attendance certificate is not presented within 30 days after the end of the academic quarter. Art. 18 If the member ceases his/her relationship with the Cooperative, for any reason, whether due to resignation, exclusion or elimination from the membership, the scholarship credit will automatically cease. Art. 19 During the benefit period, the scholarship holder must participate in at least 80% of Sicredi VRP's Social Programs, among them the Crescer Cooperative Training Program, Financial Education Program – Cooperation at the tip of the pencil, Youth Committee, assemblies and core meetings linked to its agency and other actions aimed at the group. Art. 2 0 The scholarship holder who fails in any of the years of the technical course they are enrolled in, or withdraws from it, will lose their right to the scholarship. § Single . The scholarship holder who proves his failure for reasons beyond his control will have the benefit maintained in the following year. Art. 21 The scholarship holder who is hired as a Young Apprentice by the Cooperative will have his participation in the project interrupted. Returning to the Plante o Futuro program when the contract ends. FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 2 2 Doubts and omissions will be resolved by the Sicredi VRP Board of Directors. Approved at the Ordinary Meeting of the Board of Directors on 11/22/2023 Information classification: Unrestricted Use Santa Cruz do South, November 22, 20 23. The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Vale do Rio Pardo – Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS Heitor Alvaro Petry Coraldino Calmes da Silveira President of Sicredi VRP Vice-president Marcio José Algayer Daniele Mann Executive Director Operations Director