ANNUAL REPORT 2022SICREDI VALE DO RIO PARDO RSSummary MESSAGE FROM SICREDI LEADERSHIP IN BRAZIL OUR COOPERATIVE Profile Area of ​​activity Governance and Participation HIGHLIGHTS OF 2022 Assemblies 103 years Social Fund / Day C RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis School Cooperatives RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS DEVELOPED LOCAL MENT Santa Cruz do Sul Sinimbu Vera Cruz Rio Pardo Herveiras Venâncio Aires Passo do Sobrado / General Câmara Vale Verde RESULTS STATEMENTS FINANCIAL SERVICE NETWORK4 5 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 18 21 25 26 28 29 30 32 33 34 35 37 39 42.......... .......... . ......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . ......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . ......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . ......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . ......... .......... .......... ..........4The annual activity report is intended to provide information especially associates, but also partner bodies, and the community about the main events, indicators and performance of the cooperative in the logic of transparency. Therefore, you will find in this material a summary of Sicredi VRP's performance, in the 2022 financial year, not only regarding the economic pillar, but also social, environmental and governance. In this horizon, the cooperative is determined to contribute robustly to the development of our region and, in effect, finds itself in a moment of solidity and ability to assist its members in their financial needs, and to, perhaps even more intensely, be active and partner with regional bodies that converge and act in line with the cooperative's mission, which is to seek prosperity through collective strength generating benefits for the community, raising their standard of living. A historical result that exceeds R$ 60 million reais is the basis for the growth and strengthening of the organization, in fact, our biggest commitment, but also a basis for investing in the social and environmental sphere. Through the Social Development Fund, 113 projects with social and environmental impact were included in 2022. We are very proud of our pioneering role in credit and promotion for photovoltaic generation, in which more than three thousand plants have already been financed, generating an extraordinary economic and social impact and environmental issues in our region. Our own plant guarantees us autonomy and, in these 12 months, the economy generated exceeded 700 thousand reais. These are just a few examples among many others. In the field of education, investments in training and training have been intense. Hundreds of children and young people are receiving the Message of Leadership Heitor Álvaro Petry President Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RSPREFÁCIO opportunity to experience the principles and values ​​of cooperativism in practice through the School Cooperatives movement, which already has 12 organizations. Gratitude to the bodies and professionals of education through partnership and belief in the multiplication of cooperativism and as the basis of its perpetuity by investing in young people and making them better able to take the lead in leadership and entrepreneurship, ultimately being citizens in promoting good. I thank everyone who is part of this story, advisors, directors, collaborators, partner bodies, the community in general, but especially our more than 63 thousand associates who are building this great story. Gratitude to God, may he bless and enlighten us all on this journey in our time and our responsibility. A great read for everyone.Sicredi in Brazil6PA RO MTAMRR MG ESACAP TO GO MSMA PICE BA SP PR RSSCRJSEALPEPBRN DFSicredi in Brazil We are Sicredi, a cooperative financial institution committed to the growth of its members and the development of the regions in which it operates. Our management model values ​​the participation of associates, who are the true owners of the business. We are present in all states of the country. We at Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS are part of this national system, made up of millions of members who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network that supports its prosperity with responsible financial solutions. More information is available at sicredi.com. br.263.5 billion in total assets. 160.6 billion in credit portfolio. 179.7 billion total deposits. 30.7 billion net worth. More than 100 Cooperatives. More of 2,400 service points. More than 35 thousand employees. More than 6 million members. Present in all states of Brazil. *Data from December 2022Our Cooperative8OUR COOPERATIVA Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo completed 103 years of history in 2022. The founding of one of the oldest credit cooperatives in Rio Grande do Sul took place on September 21, 1919. The cooperative institution is present in the municipalities of Santa Cruz do Sul, Venâncio Aires, Vera Cruz, Sinimbu, Passo do Sobrado, Vale Verde, General Câmara, Herveiras and Rio Pardo. Close service occurs through 15 branches, some are present in inland locations, where traditional banking financial institutions are not present. Our Cooperative Aligned with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN), Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo's strategy encompasses three pillars: economic, environmental and social. The same The path to cooperation is offering financial education and adding income to more than 63 thousand members. It is the construction of a more human and collaborative reality, within the communities where it operates, which makes the cooperative closer to people to offer sustainable solutions that enable regional development. Profile Mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of associates and society. Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective System. Values ​​• Strict preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for official and internal standards; • Efficiency and transparency in management.PURPOSE Build a more prosperous society together a.Rio Par doVera CruzPasso do Sobr ado Vale VerdeGener al Câmar aHerveir as RSSinimbu Santa Cruz do Sul Origin in 1919 Installed in 1996 Installed in 2012Installed in 2008Installed in 1999Installed in 2000 Installed in 2001Installed in 2003 Installed in 1994Venâncio Aires Area of ​​Operation Sicredi Vale do Rio P ardo RS 15 branches 61.9 million63.9 thousand15agencies 284 employees and 1.7 billion in credit assets1.2 billion Net result *Data from December 2022associates 9municipalities Sicredi Regional Headquarters Vale do Rio Pardo RS10The active participation of associates in business management is of utmost importance. To this end, they meet annually in an assembly to evaluate accountability and decide on the allocation of results and the direction of the Cooperative. Every four years there are elections for the Board of Directors, which is responsible for the Cooperative's strategy and for choosing the Executive Board. Also every four years there is an election for Core delegates, whose role is to represent members at assemblies. The election to choose the Fiscal Council takes place every three years. Governance and Participation OUR COOPERATIVA Heitor Álvaro Petry President Advisors: Heitor Álvaro Petry, Ornélio Sausen, Ricardo Fernando Bartz, Aldemir José de M. Santos, João Waldemar Goerck, Coraldino Calmes da Silveira, Sérgio Luiz Pauli, Silvani Janisse Frantz, Valmir Dal Prá, Talita Andressa Wagner, Sérgio Luiz Reis, Astor Ervino Breunig, Geraldo Back, Daniel Kessler, Miguel Kops, Renato Goerck, Rafael José Ocanha, Pedro Carlos ThessingEffective advisors: Liane Cristina da Silva Toiller, Maria Zilá Solano, Iloir Carlos Palm Alternate advisors: Luciano Naue, Salete Wagner, Cristiano Antônio da Silva KrugManagement 2022- 2025 Management 2019-2022Márcio Algayer Executive Director Carlos Thessing Vice-PresidentDaniele Mann Director of Operations Associated (Elect) Core Delegates (Elegation) Board of Directors of the Cooperative EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF COOPERATT VATE OF ADMINISTRATION COUNCIL 20222 The Sicredi Assemblies offer to opportunity for the member to become aware of the cooperative's performance and results, decide on the destinations of the economic result and on the directions towards building a better world based on collective prosperity. In-person return On March 29, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo held the Ordinary General Assembly, which marked the return of face-to-face assemblies and the first was held at the institution's new administrative headquarters, in Santa Cruz do Sul. During the meeting there were 2021 results addressed, voting on surpluses, election of the Fiscal Council, approval of the Regulations for the Belonging Program, among other matters. ASSEMBLY Highlights 2022 13 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022On September 21st, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo completed 103 years of cooperativism. To celebrate the date, the cooperative carried out some activities, such as a gift campaign and a lecture on economics and the environment. Award-Winning Cooperation Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo welcomed members and savers with a series of special gifts. Through the Campaign Award-Winning Cooperation, the cooperative went beyond just celebrating 103 years of its creation and turned its attention to showering those who make Sicredi happen with gifts. To participate, the member had to use at least one of three selected products. The objective was to strengthen the relationship with more than 63 thousand members. Among the gifts were cutlery, umbrella, thermal, backpack, volleyball, umbrella, stainless steel squeeze bottle and aluminum chair. 103 YEARS Economy and a Half environment Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo's anniversary was marked by the participation of more than 180 leaders from the nine municipalities in the cooperative's area of ​​operation, delegates from the Center and guests, who attended the Economy and Environment lecture, with communicator Giane Guerra . The speaker addressed national and international themes and scenarios related to the production of clean energy, with an emphasis on wind energy, biofuel, green hydrogen and solar energy. At end, she answered questions from participants and received a basket of products from regional agribusinesses supported and encouraged by the institution. 14Cooperate Day (Day C) is an initiative led by the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB), which encourages volunteering throughout Brazil through social actions. The activities take place on International Cooperative Day which, in 2022, was celebrated on Saturday, July 2nd. Tons of food To mark the participation in Day C, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo carried out a campaign to collect non-perishable DAY C food for charities in the nine municipalities in its operating base. The solidarity mobilization of employees, associates and partner establishments accounted for 12,365 tons of supplies which, with the counterpart from the cooperative, which doubled the donations, resulted in a total of 24,730 tons. The action took place during the months of July and August at agencies Sicredi and other collection points. Beneficiary entities: Vera Cruz - Association of Special Friends (ADAE), Women's League to Combat Cancer, Social Assistance, Grupo das Marias, Hospital Vera Cruz and CPM of Escola Estadual de Ensino Fundamental Frederico Augusto Hannemann Venâncio Aires - Hospital São Sebastião Mártir, Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional (Apae), Women's League to Combat Cancer, João XXIII Promotional Center, NGO Joaninhas do Bem, Paresp, Group of Trailers for deliveries in the interior, Shelter House and Food Bank Passo do Sobrado - Social Assistance Reference Center (CRAS) Santa Cruz do Sul - Gideões Social Center, Grupo do Bem, How Much a Smile is Worth, Mercado de Sião, Association of Aid to the Needy (Asan), Hospital Monte Alverne, Ministério Sião, Travessão Dona Josefa Youth Group, Paróquia Santo Antônio, Comunidade Jesus Mestre da Palavra, Rotary Club Cidade Alta and needy families in Monte Alverne and Alto Paredão Sinimbu - Social Assistance Reference Center (CRAS) Rio Pardo – Municipal Secretariat of Social Assistance Herveiras - Social Assistance Reference Center (CRAS) General Câmara - Social Assistance Reference Center (CRAS) Vale Verde - Cooperative Escolar Verde ValeThe objective of the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Social Fund is to support actions of collective interest that positively impact the lives of people, communities and ecosystems. The initiative has been ongoing since 2019 and has already allocated more than R$2 million to 383 projects. 16 thousand people impacted In 2022, the Social Fund included 113 projects developed by non-profit entities, which, in our estimate, directly benefited more than 16 thousand people. In total, more than R$755,000 were distributed among institutions in the region covered by the cooperative. The projects are in the areas of education, culture, social, health, environment, social inclusion, sport, entrepreneurship, security, cooperation, innovation and local development. In addition to being aligned with the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, they are linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SOCIAL FUND To align the construction of projects in accordance with the Social Fund proposal, in 2022 3 workshops were held. The delivery of certificates with the amounts transferred in a symbolic way took place in each of the nine municipalities in the area of cooperative, with the presence of a representative per entity, authorities and the press. Check the pages about Local Development, referring to each municipality in which Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo operates, for the benefiting entities. HIGHLIGHTS 2022 Relationship and cooperativism16RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS Cooperation Term Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo and the 6th Regional Education Coordination (CRE), representing the State Department of Education (Seduc), signed a Cooperation Agreement between a credit cooperative and the State Government. The document allows the development of cooperativism and financial education in the region, through practical actions, through the Cooperation Programs in Ponta do Lápis and School cooperatives. The agreement extends to the nine municipalities that make up the Cooperative’s area of ​​operation. It was a historic and pioneering moment in the Sicredi system. The Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis, from the Foundation Sicredi aims to cooperate towards a sustainable financial life and a more prosperous society. At the essence of cooperativism, within the social part, is caring for people, with the search for prosperity in a collective and supportive way. The program establishes partnerships with the educational environment with the aim of supporting the training of children and adults for a sustainable financial life. Through this initiative, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo develops actions segments of financial education for different audiences, such as children, young people, individuals and individual micro-entrepreneurs. In 2022, the cooperative registered around 80 activities that impacted more than 3,800 people. The Financial Education Day in Schools involved 27 students, 1,382 students and 136 teachers. In total, last year, the program impacted more than 5 thousand people in the region. Education is one of the principles of cooperativism. In this way, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo maintains two educational programs: Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, aimed at school students Relationships and Cooperativism Financial Education Day in Schools Since April 2021, the Financial Education Day in Schools, the main activity of the Cooperation Na Ponta do Lápis Program , with the participation of 136 school teachers from the region. The initiative aims to enable teachers from the 1st to 5th year of Elementary School with a methodology that allows you to connect and combine the themes of financial education with the general competencies of the National Common Curricular Base (BNCC) and its skills in different ways, in an interdisciplinary way and always taking into account the context and reality of the school community. from the initial years of Elementary School, associates and the community; and School Cooperatives Program, focusing on students in schools in the final years of Elementary and High School.17 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022Meeting of educators In August and December, educators from the Journey of Financial Education in Schools met to evaluate the end of activities and exchange knowledge. The meetings included different moments, such as relaxation with physical activity, a lecture on the teacher's well-being, review of the day's methodology, evaluation of the initiative and celebration over lunch. Participating schools: • EMEF Helberg E. Franke - Vera Cruz • EMEF São Luis – Herveiras • EMEF José de Anchieta - Passo do Sobrado • EMEF Manoel Alcides Cunha - Rio Pardo • Colégio Estadual Monte Alverne - Santa Cruz do Sul • EMEF Adolfo Boettcher – Sinimbu • EMEF Professor Odette Pedreira de Mello - Vale Verde • EMEF São Judas Tadeu - Venâncio Aires • EMEF Narciso Mariante de Campos - Venâncio Aires • EMEF Elemar Guilherme Kroth - Vera Cruz • EMEF Mathias - General Câmara • EMEF Maurício Cardoso – Herveiras • EMEF Francisco Antônio de Borba Filho - Passo do Sobrado • EMEF Antônio Olinto Meurer - Rio Pardo • EMEF José Leopoldo Rauber - Santa Cruz do Sul • EMEF Nossa Senhora de Fátima – Sinimbu • EMEF Professor Adélia Figueiredo de Menezes - Vale Verde • EMEF Dom Pedro II - Venâncio Aires • EMEF José Pedro Pauli - Vera Cruz • Inst. State of Education Vasconcelos Jardim - General Câmara • EEEF Professor José Wilke - Santa Cruz do Sul; • Ernesto Alves State Education Institute - Rio Pardo; • EMEF General Osório - Herveiras; • EMEF Our Lady Health - Passo do Sobrado; • EMEF Councilor Rodolfo Iserhard - Rio Pardo; • EMEF Padre José de Anchieta – Sinimbu; • EMEF Deolindo Pereira da Costa - Venâncio Aires; • EMEF Professor Henrique Cândido Pritsch - Vera Cruz; • Rede Criança, in Santa Cruz do Sul, made up of 10 schools. 18 RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM The Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo School Cooperatives Program is an educational initiative, which will make a difference in the civic life of each student, as it is about a learning laboratory. Children and adolescents come together voluntarily to carry out social, economic and cultural activities. The cooperative spirit and practice are developed by the program with the aim of encouraging the protagonism of students in the Final Years of Elementary School in public and private schools. Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo coordinates the program and encourages the founding of school cooperatives in the region covered by the institution. At the moment, the initiative involves the participation of approximately 700 students, with 12 school cooperatives belonging to the municipalities of Santa Cruz do Sul, Vera Cruz, Sinimbu, Herveiras, Venâncio Aires, Vale Verde and Passo do Sobrado. Discover the participating school cooperatives: • Brotando da Terra / EMEF Guararapes, in Linha Almeida, Sinimbu; • Verde Vale / EMEF Nero Pereira de Freitas, from Monte Alegre, Vale Verde; • Sowing Dreams / EMEF Maurício Cardoso, from Linha Pinhal, in Herveiras; • Sun of Tomorrow / EMEF Francisco Antônio de Borba Filho, from the town of Taquari Mirim, in Passo do Sobrado; • Made by Hand / EMEF José de Anchieta, from Potreiro Grande, in Passo do Sobrado; • Gotinha D’Água / EMEF Carlos Boettcher Filho, from Rio Pequeno, in Sinimbu; • Paredão dos Sonhos / EMEF Felipe Becker, from Paredão, in Santa Cruz do Sul; • Planting Ideas / EEEF Sagrada Família, from Linha Pinheiral, in Santa Cruz do Sul; • Pingo de Mel / EEEF Frederico Augusto Hannemann, from Vila Progresso, in Vera Cruz. • Riothal / Colégio Estadual Monte Alverne, in Santa Cruz do Sul • GreenKops / EEEM Frederico Kops, in Sinimbu; • Mar dos Sonhos / EEEM Sebastião Jubal Junqueira, in Venâncio Aires. ENEF Week In 2022, the National Financial Education Strategy Week was held between the 12th and 18th of December, by the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF). Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo took the opportunity to reinforce its positioning as a reference in relation to financial education, since the credit cooperative sector always stands out within this initiative due to numerous actions that are carried out every year. The Cooperative runs the Cooperation Na Ponta do Lápis Program throughout the year, not restricted to ENEF Week. 19 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022Coopes Challenge 2022 The main objective of the Innovation Arena – Coopes Challenge 2022 was that participants connected school cooperatives encouraged by Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo to review the learning object of their cooperative, as a way of validating the choice or improving it by using tools and techniques linked to current entrepreneurship. The initiative was in partnership with the Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service (Sebrae), Study trip From 2023 onwards, all founded school cooperatives will go on a study trip to the Rota do Cooperativism, in Nova Petrópolis. In 2022, the groups that are already developing their work did the itinerary between the months of October and November, in which they visited Linha Imperial and square, 1st Casa Cooperativa, Aldeia do Imigrante, Praça das Flores and Sicredi Pioneira. Inova-RS, Pulpo Assessoria, meuResídio, Sohr Tecnologia, Federal Institute of Education, Science and Technology Sul-rio-grandense (IFSul) - Campus Venâncio Aires and University of Santa Cruz do Sul (Unisc). The first stage of the Coopes Challenge took place in March, during Expoagro Afubra, in Rio Pardo. The second meeting was at IFSul, in Venâncio Aires. The final was held at Unisc in Santa Cruz do Sul. 20 Planning for 2023 Between November and December, school cooperatives presented activities for the next year. During the assemblies of each group, the cooperative students showed the management and financial report and activities for the years 2021 and 2022, made adjustments to the Statutes and elected the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board. At the assemblies, the new presidents and vice presidents explained the management plan for the next year, with emphasis on social actions with the school community, inside and outside the school, participation in events with learning objectives, updating social networks, among others. Regional meeting In April, the Regional Meeting of the School Cooperatives Program, held at the Exhibition Park of Expoagro Afubra, in Rincão Del Rey, Rio Pardo, received around 500 students from school cooperatives, who participated in a moment of intercooperation. The meeting aimed to exchange cooperation practices and face-to-face connection between students, after two years of distance due to the pandemic. They participated in activities and dynamics with a lot of integration, cooperativism and solidarity, led by members of the Cooperation Project, in São Paulo. RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM Responsible solutions 22RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS REGIONAL REFERENCE EXAMPLE OF INCENTIVE INTEGRATOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMResponsible solutions In 2017, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo was a pioneer with the Sicredi System in developing an exclusive credit line to encourage the use of solar energy in the nine municipalities in its operating base. The cooperative financed, by the end of 2022, more than 3,650 thousand solar plants, with more than R$ 176 million released in credit. In May, the cooperative presented some regional figures during an event held by the Brazilian Association of Photovoltaic Solar Energy (ABSolar), which places Sicredi as a reference in promoting the generation of photovoltaic solar energy in the region. In August, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo completed one year of installing its own photovoltaic energy generation plant, which meets the institution's entire electrical energy demand, using 1,238 modules. In addition to the savings generated and the environmental contribution, the complex marks the cooperative's position in relation to investment in solar energy, stimulated through the specific financing line offered to members. Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo launched the Integrator Development Program (PDI). The objective is to generate sustainable development of the photovoltaic solar energy chain through the improvement and professionalization of service providers cooperative partners. Among the benefits of certification is access to the institution's credit platform, a brand related to sustainability with Sicredi, improved business management, technological updates and discounts on initiatives that generate knowledge and opportunities. The launch included a lecture on Distributed Energy Generation, led by the lawyer, Frederico Boschin, a specialist in the electrical sector. The program has a partnership with Sebrae, Unisc and Delphos Engineering and Consulting. 23 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM COOPERAGRO PROJECT NATIONAL EVENT In October, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo launched the Technical and Management Assistance Program (ATeG) in partnership with Senar-RS. The initiative is focused on rural producers and the objective is to improve techniques, business management and make production more efficient and profitable. The cooperative is a partner with ATeG in mobilization, training and organization of members who are rural producers within beef cattle farming. Senar-RS manages and develops the program on rural properties, applying consultancy in five stages: Individualized production diagnosis, strategic planning, technological adaptation, additional professional training and systematic evaluation of results. With the aim of carrying out actions that promote the sustainability of agro-industries associated with Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo is where the CooperAgro Project came into being. The initiative cooperates with the growth and development of family farming in the region and consists of offering consultancy work carried out by Sebrae-RS, which increases the commercial vision of the business, the use of technology and the conquest of new markets. The project also provides the development of new products and greater profitability. The launch took place in June during a breakfast with products from agribusinesses. O Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo's encouragement of regional tourism motivated the presence of president Heitor Álvaro Petry as a panelist at a national event on tourism, held by the Brazilian Academy of Events and Tourism (Abet), in São Paulo, with the participation of speakers from all over the country. The cooperative leader spoke about the characteristics of the region, the way the cooperative operates, concerns about the diversification of the economy and the economic growth of rural properties and the evolution of rural tourism. The institution's strategy is focused on support, encouragement and mainly on large partnerships with institutions in the technical, teaching and representation areas and organization of categories aimed at promoting and stimulating tourism actions. Solar energy yields a lot of savings and sustainability. Transform your electricity bill expenses into a sustainable investment. With our solar energy credit, you use a clean and renewable source, and reduces electricity expenses.Solar panels are financed by Sicredi, in Santa Cruz do Sul.Ana Nery Mercur Hospital Credit: DisclosureSolar energy yields a lot of savings and sustainability. Transform your electricity bill expenses into a sustainable investment. With our credit for solar energy, you use a clean and renewable source, and reduce electricity expenses.Solar panels financed by Sicredi, in Santa Cruz do Sul.Ana Nery Hospital Mercur Credit: DisclosureLocal development26LOCAL DEVELOPMENTLocal development SANTA CRUZ DO SUL FINAL COOPES CHALLENGE 2022 RIOTHAL SCHOOL COOPERATIVA SOCIAL FUND The final of the Innovation Arena - Coopes 2022 Challenge took place at the end of September during the School Cooperative Advisors Forum. The event was attended by all students who are part of the management and supervisory boards of the nine school cooperatives encouraged by Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo. The third and final stage of the challenge was marked by sharing suggestions, with process review, prototyping and Final Pitch. The students presented their startups in the form of a Pitch to partner evaluators and visited TecnoUnisc's innovation environments. The Riothal School Cooperative, at Colégio Estadual Monte Alverne (CEMA), in the interior of Santa Cruz do Sul, was founded in November. The group has the participation of 26 founding members, who are students from the 6th to the 9th year of Elementary School. The school cooperative represents the 10th in Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo's area of ​​activity and the 3rd founded in Santa Cruz do Sul. The president is Bruna Luiza Bauermann, aged 14, whose vice-president is Manuela Eduarda Reis, aged 15. The management plan includes several community actions, inside and outside the school, such as collecting food and clothing; participation in fairs, events and related activities with the aim of stimulating learning; posts on networks social, among others.In Santa Cruz do Sul, the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Social Fund included 36 projects in 2022, totaling more than R$296 thousand. The entities covered were: • Mitra Diocesana de Santa Cruz do Sul • Lions Clube Santa Cruz do Sul Aliança • Regional Association STRs Vale do Rio Pardo and Baixo Jacuí • Associação Amigos da Vida Santa Cruz do Sul • CPM of EMEF Vidal de Negreiros • Grupo Scout Santa Cruz • CTG Rincão da Alegria • Hunters Association of Judo, Arts Martial, Sports and Cultural • Cavalo de Lata Association • Parents and Friends of the Exceptional Santa Cruz do Sul Association • Entrepreneurial Focus NGO • Santa Cruz Sports, Educational and Social Center • Coop. Regional de Agricultores Familiares Ecologistas – Ltda • Associação Pró Ensino em Santa Cruz do Sul – Apesc • Evangelical Parish of Lutheran Confession of Monte Alverne • CPM EMEF Rio Branco • Cooperativa Regional de Alimentos Santa Cruz Ltda. • CPM of EMEF Bom Jesus • Community Association Pro Amparo do Menor • Evangelical Community of Martin Luther Lutheran Confession • Association of Family and Social Education of RS • Maclaren Scout Group • Ministry of Zion • Cultural Center 25 de Julho Santa Cruz do Sul • Centro de Tradições Gaúchas Tropeiro Velho • Sociedade Cultural Beneficente e Recreativa Flamengo • Support Association for People with Cancer • CPM EMEF Visconde de São Gabriel • Hospital Ana Nery Santa Cruz do Sul • Association of Educational and Social Projects for Children and Teenagers • Rotary Santa Cruz do Sul Cidade Alta • Residents' Association of the Linha Santa Cruz Neighborhood • CPM EEEF Professor Affonso Pedro Rabuske • Piá Social and Cultural Educational Association • Pro-Development Association of the Alto Paredão District • CPM EMEF Felipe Becker 27 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022JURO ZERO RS PROGRAM COOPERATIVISM ROUTE MEETING FOR FORMER COUNSELORS MEETING WITH THE PRESS ENTREPRENEURSHIP 360°The most diverse leaders from Vale do Rio Pardo participated of a meeting in February, at the administrative headquarters of Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo, with representatives of the State Government. The objective was to find out details of the Juro Zero RS Program, carried out by the Secretariat for Economic Development (Sedec) in partnership with development banks and partner institutions, such as Sicredi. The program allows loans for individual microentrepreneurs, microenterprises and small businesses with interest subsidized by the State. In June, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo promoted a trip to the Cooperativism Route, in Nova Petrópolis, with the regional press. The objective was to visit the historical-cultural itinerary that reconstructs the first steps of credit cooperatives in Latin America. At the end of the tour, everyone socialized at the Cidade Zaandam Restaurant, with the best of Dutch culture. In March, a lunch marked the meeting of all former Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo advisors. The aim was to present the installations of the new headquarters and highlight the importance of each person in achieving the cooperative's own building. In April, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo presented the 2021 economic and social results and activities to the regional press, the projection for 2022 of social programs and the launch of the registration process for the Social Fund. In addition to the numbers, the cooperative highlighted its social programs, which generate a positive impact on the communities in which it is present, as investing in people, it increases the chance for them to make a difference in the world. The annual reports can be accessed at sicredivaledoriopardors.com.br. With the participation of school cooperatives, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo in partnership with Sebrae RS held a free event called Entrepreneurship 360° - Innovate to Transform, focusing on entrepreneurs in the region. The initiative took place in October, in a hybrid format, in the amphitheater of block 18 of Unisc. The objective was demystify the concept of innovation and show how it should be applied in the day-to-day practice of small businesses. 28AGROINDUSTRY LECTURES To guide entrepreneurs linked to agroindustries, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo held, at the end of 2022, two lectures with the support of Sebrae RS and the City of Santa Cruz do Sul. The first approach was about changing food labeling. The second highlighted future-bearing segments for agro-industries: meat, milk and fruits, which brought tips on how to manage companies in the sector thinking about the future.LOCAL DEVELOPMENT SANTA CRUZ DO SUL GREENKOPS SCHOOL COOPERATIVESOCIAL FUND In December, to the sound of the cooperative song, a group formed by 22 students from the Frederico Kops State High School , from Sinimbu, founded the Green Kops School Cooperative. The activities of the students who form the cooperative will be within the school, with participation in fairs, events and other activities, always with the objective of learning. The basis will be learning, exercising and promoting cooperativism within the school, family and community. Furthermore, teenagers will carry out social actions, develop entrepreneurship, protagonism and leadership. The students elected as leaders were Kauana Vitória Ferreira, 16 years old, for president, and Vitória Juliana da Rosa, 15 years old, as vice. In Sinimbu, there are 10 projects contemplated in 2022 with the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Social Fund, totaling more than R$38 thousand. The entities covered were: • Congregação Evangélica Luterana Martinho Lutero • CPM Escola Estadual Frederico Kops • Ilpi Lar Sinimbu • CPM EMEF Guararapes • Grêmio Esportivo Sinimbu • CPM EMEI Criança Feliz • Support Group for the Sinimbu Military Brigade • Union of Family Farmers Workers of Santa Cruz do Sul • CPM EMEF Nossa Senhora da Glória • CPM EMEF Carlos Boettcher FilhoSINIMBU MICROCREDIT FOR THE FEMALE PUBLIC In March, the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo launched a microcredit line for entrepreneurs, with exclusive rates for women. The launch took place during the Empodere para Todas event, by Club Empodere, celebrating International Women's Day, with the presence of members of both institutions. Microcredit plays a fundamental role in boosting business performance. The solution also allows monitoring of financial management throughout the term of the contract through the Cooperation social program in Ponta do Lápis. 29 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022BOOK FAIR PRODUCTION FAIR PRODUCER IN THE VEHICLE ATEGFEIRÃO PROGRAM MOTION OF APPLAUSE SOCIAL FUND In November, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo was part of the program of the 24th Vera Cruz Book Fair with a tent full of activities aimed at children. Redesigned, the fair took place at the Municipal Events Park, with booksellers' stalls, a food court, toys for children and product exhibition. The institution provided dozens of students with a moment of storytelling, face painting workshops and art making on bladders. The children's instructors were students from school cooperatives and the Rotary Club. As a way of supporting rural producers, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo participated as a sponsor and exhibitor in the 12th edition of the Production Fair, which took place from June 15th to 19th, at Parque Municipal de Eventos. The fair seeks to value local agribusinesses and rural producers. For the Cooperative, it is very important to be present at events that highlight the agribusiness sector, especially in relation to family farming and the local economy. The 2022 Production Fair received 60,000 visitors over the five-day event, which saw the participation of 162 commercial, industrial, handicraft and family agribusiness exhibitors. The program highlights presentations cultural events, dances, shows, sporting activities, amusement parks, meetings and lectures. Producer Rudimar Herber, who has property in Linha Ferraz, in the interior of Vera Cruz, despite having extensive experience in farming and beef cattle production, is a participant in the Technical and Management Assistance Program (ATeG), carried out in partnership by Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo and Senar-RS. The producer's objective is to achieve an even better result on the 78-hectare property, distributed over 68 hectares for livestock, three for tobacco and seven for corn cultivation. The year 2022 marked the first Vehicle Fair in the region, promoted by Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo. The event, which took place at Clube Vera Cruz, was attended by eight associated dealers, from Vera Cruz and Santa Cruz do Sul, who offered 100 new and pre-owned options. The fair's proposal is to offer the best rates on the market, agility in quotation and financing. In total, the initiative saw the sale of seven vehicles. During the Ordinary Session of the Vera Cruz City Council, on August 8, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo received the Motion of Applause for the Social Fund. In Vera Cruz, the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Social Fund included 11 projects in 2022, totaling more than R$83 thousand. The entities covered were: • CPM of EMEF José • Vera Cruz Fire Department Supporting Association • Congregation Evangelical Lutheran Trindade • Mixed Cooperative of Family Farmers of Vera Cruz • Rotary Club of Vera Cruz • Associação Esportiva Verona • CPM of E.E.E.F Frederico Augusto Hanemann • Esporte Clube Independente • Association of Artisans of Vera Cruz • Association of Special Friends Mãos Dadas – ADAE • Scout Group Vera Cruz - 72/RSVERA CRUZ 30 CASA SICREDI AT EXPOAGRO With 218 square meters of built area, Casa Sicredi at Expoagro has a reception, auditorium, meetings, kitchen and bathrooms. The project is designed by the Thomas Horn Architecture and Planning office. The construction definitively marks the presence of credit unions at the event and the pride of being part of the history of the most important fair in Brazil focused on family farming. At other times of the year, the space will also host meetings led or supported by Sicredi with a focus on qualifying members or the communities where it operates. RIVER PARDOLOCAL DEVELOPMENT 31 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022 SICREDI ON THE RETURN OF EXPOAGRO Since 2004, Sicredi has been one of the main sponsors of Expoagro Afubra which, after two years without edition, due to the pandemic, resumed activities in 2022, from 23 to March 26, at the Exhibition Park, in Rincão Del Rey, Rio Pardo. During the 20th edition, Sicredi was present at Expoagro Afubra with a new, differentiated space to welcome visitors. Casa Sicredi, located on the Lot 267 within the Park, was made possible in a cooperative manner by Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo, Centro Serra and Centro Leste. The place hosted a diverse program related to the development of regional agribusiness and received visits from several authorities, including governor Eduardo Leite. 32 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT RIO PARDO EM FESTAFUNDO SOCIAL As an exhibitor, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo participated in Rio Pardo em Festa, from October 6th to 12th, at the Exhibition Park Apeles de Quadros and Praça da Matriz. The initiative is carried out by the Development Agency and Point Produções, with the support of the Municipal Government. In Rio Pardo, the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Social Fund included 8 projects in 2022, totaling more than R$60 thousand. The entities covered were: • Futsal Club Riopardense Nadas Branco • Work Cooperative of Collectors of Recyclable Materials • Support Group for the Military Brigade of Rio Pardo • Brazilian Province of Congregation Sisters Daughters of Charity São Vicente de Paula • Rural Union of Rio Pardo • Instituto Maria Auxiliadora • CPM of EMEF Manoel Alcides Cunha • Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional of Rio PardoRIO PARDO SOCIAL FUND In Herveiras, the Social Fund of Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo included 6 projects in 2022, totaling more than R$27 thousand. The entities covered were: • CPM from Escola Estadual Emílio Alves Nunes • CPM from EMEF Maurício Cardoso • CPM from EMEF General Osório • Gasoline CLUB of Herveiras • Sociedade Esportiva Cultural de Herveiras • CPM EMEI Gente MúdaHERVEIRAS 33 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022VENÂNCIO AIRES SPRAYING WITH DRONECOOPERATIVA ESCHOLAR MAR DOS SONHOSOCIAL FUND MOTION OF APPLAUSE At the headquarters of the São João Bosco Association, in the town of Linha Olavo Bilac, in Venâncio Aires, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo and partners held a technical event on The Use of Drones in Agriculture. The meeting featured the participation of more than 100 producers. On the occasion, brothers Arnildo and Alex Aretz, from Vera Cruz, demonstrated how the spraying drone works in agriculture, financed by the cooperative, which has served producers across the region on an outsourced basis with Agro 4.0. In December, students from the Sebastião Jubal Junqueira State High School founded the Mar de Sonhos School Cooperative, the first in Venâncio Aires. The cooperative is made up of 44 students from 6th to 9th Year of Elementary School and 1st to 3rd Year of High School. The group proposes to cooperate and collaborate with the school community, hold charitable and social events, seek new members, produce learning objects, provide sports and cultural spaces, among other demands. The chosen president was Samuel José Becker, from the 2nd year of EM, and the vice Guilherme Luís Ruppenthal, from the 1st year of EM. In Venâncio Aires, the Social Fund of Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo included 25 projects in 2022, totaling more than R$170 thousand. The entities covered were: • Aubf - Associação União Bairros Futsal • Association of Parents and Teachers of the Social Assistance Center of Venâncio Aires (CASVA) • Women's League to Combat Cancer of Venâncio Aires • Diocesan Mitra of Santa Cruz do Sul (São Paulo Parish) Martinho, São Sebastião Mártir Parish and Nossa Senhora de Lourdes Parish) • Esperança Azul - Pro-Autism Association of Venâncio Aires/RS • João XXIII Promotional Center • Rotary Club Venâncio Aires • Parents and Teachers Association of EMEF Narciso Mariante de Campos • Evangelical Community of Venâncio Aires • Pro-Public Security Community Council of Venâncio Aires • Citizenship Action Against Hunger and Poverty of Venâncio Aires • Rural Union of Venâncio Aires • Culture Center of Venâncio Aires • Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional of Venâncio Aires • Casa da Amizade of Venâncio Aires • Rotary Club Venâncio Aires Chimarrão • Chamber of Commerce Industry and Services of Venâncio Aires • Cooperative of Producers of Venâncio Aires – Cooprova • Rural Workers Union of Venâncio Aires • Footwear and Clothing Workers Union of Venâncio Aires and Mato Leitão • Association of Parents and Teachers of EMEF São Judas Tadeu • Association Tutaloko Trilha Clube • Non-Governmental Organization Parceiros da Esperança On July 11th, during the Ordinary Session of the Venâncio Aires City Council, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo received the Motion of Applause addressed to the Social Fund. 34LOCAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL FUND RURAL WORKERSIn Passo do Sobrado, there are 7 projects awarded in 2022 with the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Social Fund, totaling more than R$31 thousand. The entities covered were: • CPM of EMEF Francisco Antonio de Borba Filho • CPM Escola Estadual Alexandrino de Alencar • Rural Workers Union of Passo do Sobrado • CTG - Centro de Tradições Gaúchas Gaudérios da Querência • Animal Protection Association of Passo do Sobrado • Voluntary Firefighters Association of Passo do Sobrado • CPM EMEF José de Anchieta On March 8, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo supported the 26th Regional Meeting of Rural Women Workers, which took place at Balneário Moraes, in Rincão de Nossa Senhora, in Passo do Sobrado, organized by the Regional Commission for Rural Women Workers and STR of the municipality. The purpose of the event was to search for women rural workers for their protagonism, food sovereignty and collective health. The program included several activities, such as a motivational talk, talent show, theater play and visits to agribusinesses, flower crafts and a daisy stand. STEP FROM THE HOUSE BIOLOGICAL MANAGEMENT WITH DRONEFUND SOCIAL At Fazenda Santo Antonio, in the town of Boqueirão, in General Câmara, 55 producers participated in the demonstration of the T10 model drone. The meeting, held at Miguel's property and Maurício Piccin, the biggest difference was the biological management of the 400-hectare soybean crop. The event was a moment of learning and exchange of experiences provided by the cooperative, which combined the use of cutting-edge technology such as drones and the use of biofertilizer on a large scale. In General Câmara, there are 5 projects contemplated in 2022 with the Social Fund from Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo, totaling more than R$21 thousand. The entities covered were: • Mitra da Archdiocese of Porto Alegre • Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional of General Câmara • Union of Rural Workers General Câmara • Association of Volunteer Firefighters of General Câmara • Association of Rural Producers and Producers of RincãoGENERAL CÂMARA 35 Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS 2022FIELD DAY SOCIAL FUNDIn Vale Verde, there are 4 projects awarded in 2022 with the Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo Social Fund, totaling R$20 thousand. The entities covered were: • CPM of EMEF Nero Pereira de Freitas • EMEF APM Professor Odette Pedreira de Mello • Vale Verde Pro-Public Security Community Council • Alto Potreirinho Farmers Association In December, Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo, Emater, Vale Verde City Hall and the The companies UniAgro – Innovation and Result, Agroin Insumos Agrícolas and Safra Agronegócio held the Field Day. The objective was to provide a space for the exchange of experiences between rural producers in the region. The event It took place on the property of farmers Rodrigo da Silva de Oliveira and Katieli da Silva Oliveira da Luz, located in Monte Alegre, in the interior of Vale Verde. VALE VERDE Results 202056.4 202158.7 2020861982 20208692 20202021 2021109.5 2022 20211.01 billion1.2 billion 20221.7 billion20211 billion 2020775 2021301 202143 .8 202261.9 2021210 2022265.52020266 202032.2 2020171Members (thousands) Deposits (millions of R$ ) Consortiums (millions of R$ ) Assets (millions of R$ ) Shareholders’ equity (millions of R$)Results (millions of R$)Savings (millions of R$)Total credit (millions of R$) *Percentage of growth in relation to the previous year. **Data from December 2022.+4.08%* 202263.9 +14.05%*1.335 billion 2022 +6.98%* +18.81%*+22.8%*+36.02%* +41.32%* +26.42%*+13.16%* 2022338+29.03%* 20221.2 billion +8.85%* +35.94%* +19.02%* +41.6% *+20%* +12.95%*Financial statements202056.4 202158.7 2020861982 20208692 20202021 2021109.5 2022 20211.01 billion1.2 billion 20221.7 billion20211 2 billion of R$ )Results (millions of R$)Savings (millions of R$)Total credit (millions of R$) *Percentage of growth in relation to the previous year. **Data from December 2022.+4.08%* 202263.9 +14.05%*1.335 billion 2022 +6.98%* +18.81%*+22.8%*+36.02%* +41.32%* +26.42%*+13.16%* 2022338+29.03%* 20221 .2 billion +8.85%* +35.94%* +19.02%* +41.6%*+20%* +12.95%**The complete balance sheet is available at sicredivaledoriopardors.com.brSanta Cruz do Sul / Rio Grande do Sul, March 23, 2023. OPINION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL As members of the Fiscal Council of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Vale do Rio Pardo - Sicredi Vale do Rio Pardo RS and in the exercise of legal and statutory powers, we examine the Management Report and the Financial Statements Financial statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses, Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, Statement of Cash Flows, Explanatory Notes and other statements, and the respective audit report on the financial statements, documents relating to the year ended 31 December 2022. According to the Governance policies adopted by the Cooperative and based on our examinations and the auditors' audit report independent, issued by Ernst &amp; Young Auditores Independentes S.S., we are in favor of approving the aforementioned statements. Sincerely, Iloir Carlos Palm CounselorLiane Cristina da Silva Toillier CounselorMaria Zila Solano CounselorGener al Câmar service network at Rua Visconde de Itaboray, 269 (51) 2183-0512 Santa C ruz do Sul - Alto Paredão Alto Paredã o, s/n, 12th District (51) 2183-0517Santa Cruz do Sul - Afubr a Rua Júlio de C astilho s, 991 (51) 2183-0510 Santa Cruz do Sul - Santa Cruz Line Av. Osc ar Baumhar dt, 1917 (51) 2183-0516 Venâncio Aires - Centro Rua Tiradentes, 1053 (51) 2183-0503Herveiras Rua 10 de Outub ro, 131 (51) 2183-0508Passo do Sobrado Rua São José, 206 (51) 2183-0504 Santa Cruz do Sul - Arroio Grande Av. Dep. Euclide - Mount Alverne Rua Dr. Pedro E ggler, s/n (51) 2183-0509Rio Pardo Rua Andrade Neves, 756(51) 2183-0507 Santa Cruz do Sul - Centro Rua Ramiro Barcelos, 1086 (51) 2183-0505 Vale Verde Rua Assis Bra sil, 448 (51) 2183-0515 Vera Cru z Rua Cláudio Ma noel, 50 (51) 2183-0502sicredivaledoriopardors .com.br Follow our Cooperative on social media: