SOCIAL FUND REGULATIONS 2023 1. OBJECTIVE The purpose of this regulation is to establish the rules for accessing resources from the Sicredi Social Fund of the Cooperativa de Crédito, Poupança e Investimento Interados – Sicredi Interados RS/ES, through online registration in a specific tool. 2. SOCIAL FUND The Sicredi Social Fund is the designation of resources, originating from the allocation of a certain percentage of the Cooperative's surplus, intended for the investment in the implementation of projects aimed at social development in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity, when not included in FATES – Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund. 3. MUNICIPALITIES IN THE COOPERATIVE'S AREA OF OPERATION In the State of Rio Grande do Sul: Arambaré, Arroio do Padre, Camaquã, Canguçu, Capão do Leão, Cerrito, Chuí, Chuvisca, Cristal, Dom Feliciano, Morro Redondo, Rio Grande, Santa Vitória do Palmar, São José do Norte, São Lourenço do Sul, Pelotas and Turuçu. In the State of Espirito Santo: Aracruz, Conceição da Barra, Fundão, Ibiraçu, Jaguaré, João Neiva, Linhares, Montanha, Mucurici, Pedro Canário, Pinheiros, Ponto Belo, Rio Bananal, São Mateus and Sooretama. 4. ORIGIN AND DISTRIBUTION OF RESOURCES The composition of the Social Fund resources will be through the allocation of 1.5% of the Cooperative's surplus from the previous year. From the result of each year (before allocations), 1.5% will be distributed, and must be assessed and approved by the General Assembly, in the following proportion between agencies: • 40% apportioned to the results of each agency; • 20% prorated by the total number of members of each agency; • 20% prorated by the increase in associates (in the year) in each agency; • 20% prorated for use of the Sicredi credit card; A minimum value of R$8,000.00 per agency will be considered. In the event of a balance remaining in the Social Fund and not committed, the resources will make up the balance of the respective Social Fund for the next financial year. 5. PROJECTS THAT MAY BE CONTEMPLATED The Sicredi Social Fund supports local social projects, of collective interest, developed by non-profit entities, aimed at carrying out initiatives that contribute to the community, related to the following themes: Education: Actions aimed at improvement of collective educational training, at its different levels and contexts and not limited to schools, universities, or educational systems. Any institution can propose and develop educational projects in their respective operating contexts. Culture: Actions that aim to guarantee access and expand the cultural practices of the population, stimulating cultural and artistic production and diffusion, developing awareness and respect for the culture of other peoples and/or nations. Sports: Actions that encompass projects that aim to promote social inclusion through sporting activities, with a focus on integral development of children, adolescents, young people and adults. Social Fund resources should not be confused with sponsorship but should be used for a specific project or activity. Health: Actions aimed at preventing and improving community health, developed by health entities, service clubs, schools and other entities, as well as awareness actions and programs. Environment: Actions aimed at preserving, conserving and improving the environment environment, aiming at the quality of life of people in the community and the generation of natural resources. Security: Actions aimed at preventing and improving the security of people in the community. Social Inclusion: Actions that combat exclusion from the benefits of life in society, arising from differences in social class, education, age, disability, gender, social prejudice or racial prejudice. 6. REGISTRATION OF PROJECTS Cooperativa Sicredi Interados RS/ES will annually publish the procedures for project registration, such as: • Deadlines for project registration, according to the schedule defined by the Cooperative; • The registration format; • Project evaluation period; • Announcement of the projects covered, and the date of release of resources to execute the projects. Project registration must be done via the website: https://www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/fundosocial. Only one project will be accepted registered by entity. The person responsible must fill in the data requested by the platform to register, providing details of the requesting entity and those responsible, as well as the project details. 6.1. For entities that have already registered on the Sicredi platform in the Community: Access the website www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/fundosocial, use the CPF and password already registered and consult, using the entity's zip code, the Social Fund Regulations 2023. You must scroll the cursor to the bottom of the page to enter the zip code and search. 6.2. For entities that have not yet registered on the Sicredi na Comunidade platform: Access must be through the same website, initially clicking on I Want to Register, having access to the same content. The user will be an Individual, responsible for registering the project. 6.3. Entity's Responsibility The act of registration implies knowledge of and full agreement with the regulations. The entity is responsible for veracity of all information and statements provided in the project, its full execution, as well as the consequent obligations in the civil, intellectual (copyright), labor, social security and tax spheres, exempting Sicredi Interados RS/ES from any responsibility, commitment or charges . Project registration does not guarantee approval and, consequently, does not guarantee the release of resources for the project. In the case of approved projects, to have access To the resources of the Social Fund, the entity must be associated with Sicredi Interestates RS/ES, as the investment will be credited to the entity's account, which must report within the deadlines established by this regulation, presenting the purchase invoices. 7. FRAMEWORK FOR PROJECT REGISTRATION To be able to register projects, entities must meet the following criteria: Entity: • Be registered with the CNPJ, with regular and active, and have, expressed in the statute or constitutive act, at least one of the following listed purposes, which are education, culture, sport, health, environment, security and social inclusion; • Be in compliance with obligations to the Cooperative, if the entity is already associated with Sicredi Interestates RS/ES; • Not belonging to and/or promoting actions of a partisan political nature. Furthermore, projects must meet the following criteria: Project: • The project must fit into one of Sicredi's 7 themes of interest: education, culture, sport, health, environment, safety and social inclusion; • Be implemented in the Cooperative’s area of ​​activity; • Present direct and collective benefit to the community; • Have a maximum completion deadline of December 30th of the year in which the project was approved. 8. PROJECTS THAT CANNOT BE COVERED BY THE SOCIAL FUND The social fund cannot be used for: • Reimbursement of expenses the directors and/or employees of the entities; • Carry out the entity's administrative costs (payment of electricity, water, telephone bills, employee payments, labor charges, among others); • In sponsorships of any nature, in promoting the sale of products and/or services, in the purchase of alcoholic drinks, in fireworks, in games of chance and other situations outside the interests of the Cooperative and/or the program; • Carry out projects in private institutions; • Projects that demonstrate discrimination based on gender, race, creed, sexual orientation or prejudice of any nature; • Promote actions of a partisan political nature; • Individual benefit, exclusively for collective benefit. 9. DEADLINES Registration of projects: From 02/05 to 31/05, 202 3. Evaluation of projects in agencies: From 1/06 to 16/06, 202 3. Publication of the projects included: 20/06/202 3. Presentation of documents by the Entity to release the resources: From 06/21 to 06/30, 2023. Release of resources into the beneficiary Entity's current account: Up to 10 days after delivery of the receipt and signed term. Development of projects by the entity: From 1/06 to 30/12, 202 3. Proof of the use of resources by the Entities (sending invoices): At the time of releasing the resource, the Entity will be informed by the Cooperative about the maximum period for proof of the resource and sending photos that prove the execution of the project. 10. METHOD OF PROJECT EVALUATION After the project registration stage, the Evaluation Committee at the agencies will analyze the registrations, enabling or disabling the projects, in accordance with the standards set out in this regulation. The Committee is made up of Core Coordinators and agency employees. At any time, during the registration and evaluation period, entities can be contacted for further information regarding the project. You Projects that are disqualified due to lack of information or documents at the time of registration will not be reevaluated. The final choice of projects will be made by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. 1st stage – Agency Committee: Projects will be evaluated by the Agency Committee based on the following criteria: CRITERIA DESCRIPTION SUB-CRITERIA WEIGHT OF GRADE MAXIMUM SCORE Priority segments of the Social Fund Project actions and expenses are related to themes (education, culture, sport, health, environment, safety or social inclusion) and stimulate the development of activities/training of people. Planned activities are within the areas (2) Planned expenses are correlated to the areas (2) Provides for the hiring of professionals to develop activities (1) 2 10 Innovation, creativity and originality The project generates new experiences, is innovative, brings a difference , develop new possibilities and enhances public participation. The project is innovative (2) Enables the intellectual/creative development of participants (2) Develops/explores the area with originality (1) . 2 10 Legacy and perspective of continuity of project actions The project has the capacity to leave a legacy for this and future generations. The actions are related to the object of the project and develop agents of transformation through the culture of entrepreneurship. Positive legacy for this and future generations (2) enables actions based on the project (2) encourages entrepreneurship (1) . 1.5 7.5 Social Impact The project has the potential to generate a positive impact on the community, generates engagement and has clear and measurable social impact metrics. Positive social impact on the community (2) The results and impacts of the project are measurable (2) It generates engagement in the community in which it operates (1). 1.5 7.5 Adherence to the SDGs project meets one or more initiatives of the 2030 Agenda for the The project seeks the development of people with equality and 1 5 Sustainable Development, promoting development with equality in search of a better quality of life. sustainability (2) Project meets one or more SDGs (2) The project improves people's quality of life (1) . Social inclusion The project provides for the inclusion of low-income or vulnerable people, providing opportunities for diversity of genders and reduces social inequality. Free and open participation (2) Enables the development of people in social vulnerability (2) Reduces social inequality (1) . 1 5 Administrative/financial management of the project The proponent has efficient administrative and financial management. The project is aligned with conscious business practices and is economically sustainable. Efficient administrative management is perceived through the presentation of budgets and description of all steps requested in the regulation (2) Budgets consistent with reality (2) Project generates/encourages the creation of local jobs or the acquisition of products from local suppliers. 1 5 Within the sub-criteria, the maximum score is 5 points. This score is multiplied by the weight of the grade, to result in the maximum grade for the criterion. 2nd stage – Coordinators Committee: Projects that passed the 1st stage, fulfilling all the requirements of this regulation, will be qualified for the 2nd stage, and will be evaluated by the Committee formed by the agency's Core Coordinators based on the following criteria: CRITERIA DESCRIPTION SUB-CRITERIA WEIGHT OF GRADE MAXIMUM SCORE Relevance of the entity to the community The entity is active and has an important role in development of the community. The entity is active in the community (3), the entity develops other relevant social projects in the community (3 ), the activity 2.5 25 of the entity seeks to solve some social problem (2), public participation in the entity is open and accessible to everyone (2). Importance of the project in the community The project has the ability to multiply ideas or actions in the community or target audience. The project seeks community involvement (3), the project has a positive social impact on the target audience (3), the project meets a community need (2), the project provides the personal development of the public reached (2). 2.5 25 Within the sub-criteria, the maximum score is 10 points. This score is multiplied by the weight of the grade, to result in the maximum grade for the criterion. After the evaluation by the Core Coordinators, the results of the evaluation by the Agency Committee and the Coordinators Committee are added and a final grade is obtained to support the definition of the value of the project (if it is not approved in full). 3rd stage – Board and Council Committee: The projects that passed through screening by the Committee of Coordinators will be selected by the Executive Board, which will forward it to the Board of Directors for final approval, which will also be responsible for resolving the omitted cases in this Regulation, in compliance with current legislation. 11. DISCLOSURE OF SELECTED PROJECTS After defining the projects that will benefit, the entities will be informed through the platform, and Cooperativa Sicredi Interados RS/ES will publicize the recipients on the Cooperativa sicredi.com.br/coop/interestados website and on our social networks on Facebook and Instagram @sicredi.interestados, with the aim of making the process transparent to members. 12. RELEASE OF RESOURCES AND EXECUTION OF PROJECTS The resources will be released exclusively into the current account held by the proposing entity, maintained at the Cooperative, upon sending (via the platform) the following documents: a) Issuance of the receipt by the Entity in the name of the agency of the municipality covered, as per Annex I of this Notice. b) Term of Commitment and Responsibility. The documents will be made available for the entity to sign, via the platform, after approval of the project. 12.1. The execution of the project will be carried out by the requesting entity, and the Cooperative may carry out periodic inspections until the final execution of the project, observing the correct application of resources, in accordance with the provisions of the selected project. You may also carry out visits in subsequent years to monitor the longevity of the project. 12.2. Monitoring of project execution will be carried out by the agency manager and/or coordinator of the nucleus to which the entity belongs, who must provide the requested information, as well as present evidence of project execution. 12.3. If a deviation from the project's purpose and/or lack of applicability of resources is identified, the entity will be notified immediately to reimburse Active Cooper for the amounts it has received, or it will be unable to present projects in the following years. 13. RENDERING OF ACCOUNTS The rendering of accounts must be carried out by the beneficiary entity, through the website www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/fundosocial, following the deadlines already mentioned in item 9 of this Notice, and the following documents must be presented: ) Scanned copies of documents proving the application of resources (notes tax receipts or receipts), which must be in the name and CNPJ of the beneficiary entity and issued during the project execution period. Notes dated before the projects were approved by the Cooperative will not be accepted; b) Photos of equipment, materials or services purchased or performed; c) If the images contain a benefiting public, these images must be accompanied by terms of authorization for the use of image and voice, duly signed, according to the draft available in the annex to this regulation. A signed image statement must be sent to each person appearing in the photo. Minors must have a form completed and signed by their legal guardian. d) If there are surplus resources, the amount must be returned to the Cooperative. In this case, when assessing the Accounts Provision, the entity will be instructed on how to make the deposit and send proof of the value of the surplus, through the Cooperative's account: branch 0100, current account 10063 -3. Proof must be attached to the platform. e) If entities do not prove all the resources received through invoices and/or receipts, they will be unable to present projects in the following years. 14. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 14.1. Committees • Analyze the registered projects, in accordance with the provisions of this regulation, considering the classification criteria and prohibitions; • Evaluate, debate and approve or reject qualified projects, defining the resources to be allocated; • Carry out on-site visits to evaluate the registered project and execute the projects covered; • Visit the entities to better understand the registered project, before selection; • Promote visits to the entities included in the Social Fund, to honor and validate the execution of the project, strengthening the relationship with the entity and reporting possible opportunities for improvement; • Propose improvements to the Fund Regulation . 14.2. Agency Manager and Center Coordinator • Clarify doubts and act as an intermediary agent between entities and the Cooperative; • Promote a committee meeting to evaluate and select projects. 14.3. Cooperative Supervisory Board • Monitor compliance with the Fund's Regulations and the criteria defined therein. 14.4. Requesting Entities • Meet the minimum qualification requirements of the entity and projects; • Make information available additional information about the project; • Execute the project as proposed; • Keep evidence of the resources invested in the project available to the Cooperative; • Report to the Cooperative. 15. OPERATIONAL SUPPORT In case of doubts, not clarified by the support materials available on the website www.sicredi .com.br/nacomunidade/fundosocial, the entity can access the Cooperative's social networks, or the Relationship area through WhatsApp Sicredi number (53) 99182.6383, from Monday to Friday, from 8:30 am to 5:30 pm. 16. FINAL PROVISIONS The Sicredi Interados RS/ES Cooperative Assembly is the body responsible for approving Social Fund resources, as well as the extinction of the Sicredi Social Fund. The Fund has an indefinite duration. The remaining balances from the previous year are available for investment in the following years. The omitted cases in this Regulation must be defined by the Board of Directors, observing the Current legislation.