Sicredi Interados RS/ES 21Annual Report 2 Annual Report 2021 Agência Pinheir os ESWe arrived in Espírito SantoMESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP 04 OUR COOPERATIVE 06 07»Regional operations .................. HIGHLIGHTS OF 2021 08 10 RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM 15 »Strengthen our governance model 16 »Spread cooperativism and sustainability 17 »Promote inclusion and diversity 18 RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS 21 » 22 » 23 » 26 » 29 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT 31 »Foster the local economy 32 »Promote the development of people 34 »Contribute to the development of communities 35 SERVICE NETWORK 37 Summary AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Our Cooperative in numbersSicredi Interados RS/ES Message from the leadership 4 Annual Report 2021 The year 2021 was a year of economic recovery , not only for Brazil, but for all countries. We continue to face the pandemic, and in this world of uncertainty, changes continue at high speed, including in the financial market. Inside of this transformation, credit unions are at the center, opening new branches and expanding the job offer, contrary to many banks that are closing their branches. And within this scenario, we arrived in Espírito Santo, with the expansion of our activities serving the North Coast and Far North of the State. We entered into a partnership with the Linhares Rural Union, which provided us with a room for our initial operations in the Espírito Santo lands, from May 2021. The first branch opened was in the municipality of Pinheiros, on December 10, 2021. The city hall showed great interest in our arrival and in getting to know our System. We were enchanted by the simplicity of the people, who welcomed us with open arms, opening their property for us to visit and learn about the peculiarities of coffee – the flagship of agriculture in the municipality – from classiﬁcation, preparation, including the best flavors for export. In addition coffee, the agricultural market is very strong in the State, with the production of papaya, sugar cane, black pepper, rubber trees and eucalyptus forestry, with emphasis on the activities of packing houses. Commerce in general, industry and wood processing are also a strong hub of development, with a very promising vision of the future. But credit cooperatives are protagonists not only of economic development, but also of social development, in our regions of operation. In 2021 We continue to work with the school network through the programs A União Faz a Vida, Cooperativas Escolares and Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis, encouraging our children to follow the paths of cooperativism, in addition to also dealing with financial education, a fundamental topic for the training of future citizens. We continue to work in partnership with entities in our municipalities, participating in fairs and events, even if virtual. We are also based in the Sicredi Headquarters auditorium Interados RS/ES major events, the result of some partnerships, with the Commercial Association of Pelotas, Sebrae, Azonasul, as well as construction and real estate companies associated with the Cooperative that launched the projects for their clients. Emater, Rural Workers Unions and the Pelotas Fire Department also used the Headquarters' meeting rooms. These spaces remain available to members throughout our coverage area. In this way, we also contribute development of our communities, in all areas – rural, commercial and industrial. Our objectives for 2021 were fully achieved and for 2022 our expectation is to continue growing continuously, with the support and credibility that our associates have trusted us for 36 years, not only in Rio Grande do Sul, but now also in Espírito Santo, when we will have the inauguration of the new branch in the municipality of Linhares. In Rio Grande do Sul Nilson Ireno Loec k President Sicredi Interados RS/ES5 Message from leadership We began negotiations to install the agency in the municipality of Cerrito, where our arrival generates great expectations for the population to be better served in the ﬁnancial sector. And all of this would not be possible without the commitment The severe impacts that the COVID-19 pandemic brought to us continued to impact our context in 2021, generating several challenges in all sectors, such as health, education and economy. Even with all the obstacles we were open to our associates and communities. We extend our hands, supporting the restructuring of many families and entrepreneurs, in rural and urban areas, with our solutions focused on meeting their needs, respecting the individualities of each person. and dedication of everyone involved, from associates, core coordinators, advisors, collaborators and the community in general, which always supports and encourages the development of cooperativism. Gratitude to everyone and we continue together to prosper with the strength of cooperativism! Message from the Board Still facing this scenario, Sicredi Interados RS/ES continued to act with resilience, to strengthen in our communities the strength that cooperativism brings in its DNA to transform communities. Despite the difficulties of carrying out some face-to-face activities, we continue to work together with associates, collaborators, students and teachers, our social and education, contributing to the insertion of the values ​​of cooperation and citizenship in the school environment, also highlighting the theme of financial education as a great flag for behavioral change that is so necessary to change the reality of many Brazilian families. We continue to act with transparency, based on our credibility in the market, which contributed to the signiﬁcant evolution in our business. We were able to further stimulate the development of the region, through increase in our member base, total deposits and credit, which demonstrates the effective engagement of our communities with the cooperative purpose. In this way, we reaffirm the ability of cooperativism to create opportunities in crisis scenarios, including expansion to other states, in our case Espírito Santo. We opened our first Espírito Santo branch in the municipality of Pinheiros, and we will continue to grow, without losing our essence, as we want to build together a more prosperous society. what we give to people is the same as what we receive in return. After all, we are made up of people, and our mission is to contribute to everyone's well-being. We changed the way we serve, do business, relate and, above all, take care of people. And in 2021, we were certiﬁed by GPTW (Great Place to Work), a global people management consultancy, as an excellent place to work. And this achievement shows that the attention Edson Carlos Marques Executive Director Sicredi Interados RS/ESOur Sicredi Interados RS/ES co-operative R$ 57.7 million 81,625 22 branches and service points 278 employees in 14 municipalities R$ 271 million in equity R$ 908 million in total deposits R$ 1.3 billion balance in credit portfolioOur cooperative in numbers Member results More than 300 ﬁnancial solutions6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES We are one of 108 cooperatives members of Sicredi, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. We are part of a national system, made up of more than 5.5 million members who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network, with more than 2.2 thousand branches, that supports your prosperity with responsible financial solutions. Our story began on April 8, 1985, in Pelotas, from the dream of 27 rural producers who met at the Curi Palace Hotel, in Pelotas, believing in the purposes of cooperativism as a fairer way to promote the economic and social development of people, companies and communities. On December 16, the first branch of Cooperativa de Crédito Rural da Zona Sul Ltda was opened. – Credipelotas, next to the Cosulati building, on Rua Marechal Deodoro, 404. In 1986 we joined Sicredi, through an agreement with the Central Credit Cooperative of Rio Grande do Sul – Cocecrer RS. In this way, we become part of a national system, with specialized companies and financial instruments that increase the security of our members and strengthen our local operations. The year 2021 was another landmark year in our history, when we began expanding our activities in Espírito Santos, which led to the change of the name of the Cooperative to Sicredi Interados RS/ES. The first agency was opened in Espírito Santo on December 10, 2021, in the municipality of Pinheiros. We continue in a pandemic scenario, with all the necessary care that the moment requires, but always focusing on meeting the needs of our members. Check out the overview of the Cooperative's main numbers below.7 Regional operations REGIONAL OPERATIONS Legend Municipalities with agencies or service points Municipalities without agencies Sicredi Interados RS/ES operates in the South region of Rio Grande do Sul and the North and Far Coast North of the state of Espírito Santo. RSRIO GRANDEDO LEÃOCERRITO SÃO JOSÉ DO NORTELAGUNA TURUÇUARROIOMORRO REDONDOCANGUÇUSÃO LOURENÇ O DO SUL CHUÍARAMBARÉCAMAQUIDOM FELICIANO CHUVISCA RS Agencies and service pointsESARACRUZRIO BANANALSOORETAMACONCEPTION OF BARRA JAGUARÉPINHEIROSPEDRO CANÁRIOMONTANHAMUCURICI PONTO BELO LINHARES JOÃO NEIVA IBIRAÇU FUNDÃOHighlights in 2021 The Agency was opened on December 10, 2021. First draw in Canguçu Agency 2.Opening of the Agency in Pinheiros Promotional Campaign distributed R$315 thousand in prizes Focusing on expansion and proximity to the local population, Sicredi Interados RS/ES opened its first agency in the state of Espírito Santo, in the municipality of Pinheiros, on December 10, 2021, in a modern and welcoming space, located in Governador Lacerda de Aguiar square, in the city center. The agency is 280 square meters and offers comfort, proximity and interaction with the public. In the space, members can enjoy the common area and use the coworking room, equipped with a projection screen and internet to carry out work tasks and business meetings. The team of employees is qualified to provide financial solutions for individuals, companies and rural producers. For rural producer, Arthur Orleti Sanders, the arrival of an institution with the credibility and track record of Sicredi means the possibility of new partnerships and development for the entire region. “The arrival of Sicredi to Our municipality is of great importance, it is a credit cooperative with more than 100 years in the market. It is a large, credible company that will become a great partner for producers. I usually say that 8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES a great partner is not the one that offers you what you want, it is the one that offers you what you need and I see this in Sicredi. He will certainly be a great partner and will offer us what we necessary for the development of our city and region”, highlights Orleti. Thus, Sicredi continues to expand its presence across Brazilian territory, currently operating in 24 states and the Federal District, bringing the benefits of credit cooperatives to the five regions, from the countryside to large cities. Sicredi Interados RS/ES concluded the Sorte Cooperada Promotional Campaign in October, which was created with the purpose of celebrating the cooperative's 35th anniversary, celebrated in March 2020, a year later due to the pandemic scenario that the country finds itself in. To be entitled to the raffle coupon, members transferred Sicredi products and services, such as Pix, Savings and Application deposits, contracting Payroll Credit and Vehicles, among others.9 Highlights in 2021 During the six months of the campaign, the cooperative held three draws: 19 prizes of R$5,000 for agencies in its area of ​​operation, 6 prizes of R$20 thousand and the last one worth R$100 thousand. The winner of the last draw, a member for over 20 years, Cleberson Hubner Janke, from the city of Cristal, said he found out about the draw through his account manager: “She went to my property and I wasn't there, she called me and said that I won R$100,000, I thought she was joking, she insisted and sent me a video showing the draw and my name appeared. I had this luck and this opportunity, and I got this prize I never imagined.” Visit our website www.sicredi.com.br/coop/interestados and check out who the winners of all the Campaign prizes are. Agreement with city halls promotes the realization of dreams Through the agreement with the city halls of municipalities throughout the area of ​​action, Sicredi Interados RS/ES made the dreams of many members come true, through assigned credit, offered to public employees. In 2021, 6,492 operations were released, which 2,361 members benefited, totaling R$ 104 million in resources, which provided an increase in the local economy. For the Southern Regional Manager of Sebrae RS, Ciro Ricardo Vives, the partnership between the entities further strengthens the region's development. “The constant expansion of the partnership between Sicredi and Sebrae has been advancing in leaps and bounds over the last four years, and is of great importance for the development process of the South Region, not only because of the fact that being able to improve the management capacity of members, where in 2021 alone we benefited more than 120 small businesses at a time of great need amid the pandemic; but also for bringing a proposal to change the mentality of actors throughout this ecosystem, through impactful initiatives such as Insight Sul, the biggest innovation event in the Region last year; support for sectoral projects, which propose the expansion of activities in Agribusiness, Tourism and Business; and, mainly, because we are, together, as two large representative entities for the State, making a difference and going further in mobilizing partnerships with the Public Power, the Academy and the Third Sector, in favor of a more purposeful, innovative and developed. A partnership like this only reinforces our common purpose that cooperating leads to growth”, highlights Ciro. The partnership continues in 2022 and the expectation is that this union will continue to strengthen the development of region. Visit to Agro associates - Guilherme and Fernando Ribeiro Partnership between Sebrae and Sicredi promotes development of the region For another year, the partnership between Sebrae and Sicredi benefits associates in our area of ​​activity. The project, which began in 2019, last year benefited 120 members from the 12 municipalities in the area of ​​action. 38 members linked to tourism were assisted and 115 were assisted with individualized consultancy, some of which were even referred to others projects. In 1889 hours of activities, an average of 16.42 hours per member, the topics of marketing, people, finance, processes, planning, design and collective project were covered. Awards and recognitions The Sicr edi System received throughout the year 2021 saw several awards in various sectors, some of them relating to 2020 activities. Check out the highlights below. Forbes In 2021, Sicredi ranked 7th in the country in the World's Best Banks 2021 ranking, prepared by Forbes in partnership with the statistics company Statista. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. The survey, of a popular nature, took into account the opinion of 43 thousand respondents, from 28 different countries and evaluated the institutions based on general satisfaction and recommendation, based on the elements of trust, terms and conditions, customer service, digital services and financial consultancy. Participants indicated the financial institutions where they have or have previously had a current or savings account and then answered a detailed questionnaire, giving grades based on their experience. Best and Biggest Época 360° In the Exame Melhores & Maiores 2021 guide, through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, one of the structures that make up the cooperative financial institution, it ranked 15th among the Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Prepared since 1974, the yearbook, which in 2021 included a partner from Ibmec, brings the largest companies in Brazil based on the evaluation of economic-financial criteria, growth and adoption of ESG practices. In 2021, Exame magazine changed the format of the ranking, which meant that Sicredi did not appear in some of the traditional categories, which ended up being modified or excluded. Época Negócios 360°, is a guide prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral. The cooperative financial institution ranked 8th in the Banks sector ranking, placement influenced by 2nd place in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. This ranking also underwent adjustments in the 2021 edition, changing some categories and influencing some Sicredi placements. 10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES Abrasca Award The Sustainability Report of Sicredi in 2020 was awarded at the 23rd Award of the Brazilian Association of Public Companies (Abrasca), which highlights the improvement of reporting with greater clarity, transparency, quality of information and innovative and sustainable character. We won 2nd place in the 'Closed Companies' category. The 1st place in the category was the Annual Report of BNDES (National Bank for Economic and Social Development). Broadc ast Projections Award Sicredi stood out in the Award Broadcast Projections. The institution ranked 6th in the General Top and 7th in the Basic Top. In its 15th edition, the award is based on the AE Projeções ranking and aims to reward institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators come closest to reality. Value 1000 Sicredi came in 9th place in the classification of the 100 Largest Banks of the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. Furthermore, Sicredi also stood out in other 11 categories in the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. Among the highlights, it ranked 4th among the 20 most Profitable on Equity and 7th in Credit Operations and Total Deposits. Prepared by the newspaper Valor Econômico and Serasa Experian, based on data from the 2020 accounting year, Valor 1000 relies on the approval work of the School of Business Administration of Fundação Getúlio Vargas (Eaesp/FGV). The publication provides complete information on the largest companies in Brazil, with comparable rankings, consolidated financial statements, gross revenue and other strategic items taken from the balance sheets or reported by companies or institutions.Finanças Mais We achieved a prominent position in the Finances Mais ranking, published by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo in partnership with the credit risk rating agency Austin Rating. Participating in the yearbook through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, Sicredi f oi ranked 6th in the “Banks – Financing” category. Finances Mais presents an overview of the leading institutions in the financial sector in the country, based on the analysis of the financial statements published in their respective balance sheets for the year prior to publication. Valor Grandes Grupos Repeating the feat of previous years, Sicredi was highlighted in the yearbook Valor Grandes Grupos, prepared by the newspaper Valor Econômico, which presents the analysis of the 200 main companies active in the country. In the 2021 edition, published in December, Sicredi rose one position compared to 2020 and ranked 68th overall, considering all listed companies. Among the 20 largest companies in the finance sector, the institution ranked 12th. Other milestones were 9th place among the 20 largest in Net Profit and also among the 20 best in Net Equity; and 12th position in Equity Profitability. In 2021, Valor Grandes Grupos, which considers combined financial statements, completes two decades of existence. The yearbook features complete organizational charts with the shareholdings of business groups, as well as projections and expert analysis on four major sectors: commerce, industry, services and finance. Recognition from BNDES Sicredi's good performance in the credit lines provided by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) in 2020, to minimize the impacts of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, was recognized by the “Incentives for Financial Agents Project”, from the development bank. The state body listed financial institutions with the best performance in granting emergency measures between March and December last year, and Sicredi was recognized in two categories - achieving 1st place in both: BNDES Pequenas Empresas – Development Banks/Cooperatives and Program Emergency Employment Support (PESE) – Banks Development/Cooperatives. 11 Awards and recognitionFOCUS – Annual R anking of Central Bank Projections The Central Bank publishes an annual ranking of the most prominent financial institutions in economic projections throughout the year, Sicredi has been highlighted in this ranking for 4 consecutive years and, in 2020 was no different. For the second consecutive year, Sicredi is the institution that had the greatest presence on the lists of the five institutions that came closest to achieving the indicators, being the only one to appear in five ranking categories. Sicredi appears in 4th place in the Annual Short Term category for the indicators Exchange Rate (score 9.6), IPCA (score 9.2) and IGP-M (score 8.9). In the Selic Rate, Sicredi occupies the 5th position in the Annual Short Term (score 9.5) and Annual Medium Term (score 8.9) categories. In addition to the annual, the BC also publishes the ranking monthly and Sicredi was highlighted in every month of 2020. Prisma Fisc al - Ministry of Finance Prisma Fiscal is a system for collecting market expectations, created and managed by the Economic Policy Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, to monitor the evolution of the main Brazilian fiscal variables from the perspective of important private sector analysts. In Prisma Fiscal 2020, from the Ministry of Finance, we won 1st place in the projection of Total Government Expenditure in the long term and Primary Result of the Central Government in the short term. We were also second placed in Nominal Result of the Central Government (long term), and third in Gross Debt of the General Government in the long term. Investment Fund Value Guide With strategies that value long-term assets, profitability well above their benchmarks and active management, funds from different risk and volatility categories, Sicredi has managed to remain among the top 20% since 2019 according to evaluation from the Value Guide to Investment Funds from Valor Econômico. In category Active Fixed Income we are highlighted with our Fundo Sicredi Institucional FI REF IRF-M from our own resource manager Sicredi Asset, which has more than R$56 Billion under management and a strong seal from Fitch Ratings. In the 12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES WYCUP – World Council Young Credit Union People Sicredi was highlighted in the World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup), a program that recognizes young leaders for signiﬁcant contributions to their communities and credit unions and that have the potential to make a global impact. The event was part of another edition of the Woccu ​​World Conference (World Council of Credit Cooperatives, in the English translation of the acronym). There were five winners among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects registered from 13 different countries. For the first time, Sicredi Interados RS/ES participates in the program, through the project 'Seed: Innovations for Agro', a platform created by associate Marcelo Hofmeister to provide financial education to rural producers and, thus, transform the way they see their business. Find out more by accessing the QR Code below.AgTech Garage Awards Sicredi was the winner of the AgTech Garage Awards, an award given by one of the largest innovation hubs in Latin America for agribusiness, AgTech Garage. The award-winning case involves the development of a tool for rural management, built on partnerships with the startup Elysios, in the first edition of the startup empowerment program, Intensive Connection. The choice was made through popular vote during the AgTech Meeting. Top 100 Open C orps In 2021 we appeared for the third time in this ranking that refers to the 100 most open companies for innovation in Brazil. 100 Open Startups is a platform sponsored by global companies that together evaluate and classify startups from around the world. The most attractive startups are selected by large companies to collaborate in the development of high-impact innovations for society and the market. Category Shares Index Our highlight is with the Schroders Sicredi Ibovespa FIA Fund, managed by our partner Schroder Investment Management, which has more than 200 years of experience. history in the financial market and globally manages more than USD 785.1 billion. Banking Transformation Award 2021 – Banking R eport The award that is held to encourage and value initiatives from financial institutions, contributing to the improvement of the sector, the winning case was the 'Implementation of Whatsapp Enterprise + Theo', by Sicredi, which involves the use of artificial intelligence to provide more agility and efficiency to service, through the app of instant messaging. The initiative competed with 230 other cases, being the best evaluated by a committee made up of experts in innovation and the banking sector. This recognition rewards the entire journey of digital transformation that the institution has undertaken over the last few years, which has generated an organizational environment more prone to innovation. GPTW Certiﬁcation In August 2021, Sicredi became a company certiﬁed by GPTW, being able to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking that lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. With an approval rate of 88%, the fact of being certiﬁed already proves to be an important achievement for a company of the size and breadth of Sicredi. organized by the Center for Financial Studies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas. The winners were chosen by a committee made up of professors and researchers with academic and applied experience in investments, who analyzed the investment funds of ﬁnancial institutions.Chapter Relationship and cooperativism Cooperativism effectively values ​​the participation of each member and it is fundamental for the Cooperativ a to develop and promote the growth of the region. The bond with our associates develops through relationships, whether through the use of financial solutions, or participating in meetings and assemblies, stimulating the culture of cooperation in communities and acting effectively in the management of the Cooperative. Find out below about the educational and social activities developed by Sicredi Interados RS/ES in 2021. 16 Annual Report 2021 Strengthen our governance model Sicredi Interados RS/ES Assemblies are the best opportunity for members to have access to the results achieved by their cooperative annually. They are the fundamental deliberation instance of our management model where associates They vote on the main themes of the Cooperative, such as accountability, distribution of results, election of representatives, among others. In 2021, as we continue to face an adverse pandemic scenario, it was necessary to adapt the format. Thus, we held the Cooperative’s 1st Digital Nucleus Assembly. The 2,029 members who participated in the process, accessed the event through the Sicredi platform, were able to ask their questions in the chat, and most importantly, exercise their role of owner, voting on the items on the agenda in accordance with the call notice. In cooperativism, each member represents one vote, which grants the right to participate without differences in relation to the amounts invested or solutions used. Thus, decisions and responsibilities are shared equally. That's why the involvement of each member is so important. In Core Assemblies, the majority vote defines the core's position on issues. These decisions are taken by their Core Coordinators (Delegates) to the Ordinary General Assembly (AGO). It is at this moment that the results of accountability are consolidated. Cooperative holds 1st Digital Assembly For another year, Sicredi Interestados RS/ES promoted In Company Training, aiming to qualify its core coordinators, with the support of Escoop – Faculdade of Cooperative Technology. In 2021, a mixed class was held, between employees and nucleus coordinators who had already participated in the 1st stage in 2020.ESCOOP carries out another training session at the cooperative. Learning was deepened with the participation of teachers from Escoop's postgraduate teaching staff, some of them also Sicredi employees, who also added more knowledge, providing broad debate among participants throughout the classes. The project was very well evaluated by the participants and received certification from 75% of the total participants. The advanced program included 16 hours of training, with 8 fortnightly modules developed synchronously, with themes focused on personal and professional development. 17 Relationships and Cooperativism Spreading cooperativism and sustainability In a scenario of two years of pandemic, with events only online, the Regional Meeting of Center Coordinators held in November in person brought joy and enchantment to the participants. At On this occasion, the core coordinators were received at the Sicredi Interados RS/ES Headquarters, where they were able to see the facilities through a guided tour of the four floors of the project. The visit and snack were carried out in smaller groups, respecting all protocols required due to the pandemic. After the official opening of the meeting, made by President Nilson Ireno Loec k, the Director Return to in-person brings back the Executive enchantment, Edson Carlos Marques, presented the strategic planning for the Cooperative's 2021-2023 cycle, bringing the strategic map with its ambitions, drivers and priorities that Sicredi Interados RS/ES should follow in the coming years. He also spoke about the main highlights of 2021, such as the expansion of the Cooperative to the state of Espírito Santo, how we made a difference for agribusiness and companies. The activities carried out in the relationship programs were also presented to participants. At the end, the audience watched, enchanted, the show by the group Tholl – Gaudium Mare (Sea of ​​Joy) – the boat of freedom that we are all looking for. The troupe filled the stage with joy, generosity, friendship and love, to simply be and make happy.18 Annual Report 2021 Promote inclusion and diversitySicredi Interados RS/ES With the aim of bringing cooperativism closer to the academic community, with a sustainable proposal and innovative, Sicredi Interados RS/ES will establish a business office within the FURG campus, one of the largest public universities in Brazil. The proposal is to be not only a business hub, but also a great promoter of the Cooperative's strong social bias, participating in academic life through relationship programs. One of the proposals is to develop the theme of financial education, Partnership with FURG involves the academic public with cooperativism through the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis project, throughout beginning of the semester, when we intend to form classes of 50 university students, giving them the opportunity to discuss, reflect and improve their lives in relation to financial education. One of the great enthusiasts of this project is the Director of the FURG Technology Park, Artur Gibbon, who highlights with satisfaction the benefits of this partnership. “This approach between FURG and Sicredi is extremely inspiring and highly motivating. I am president of the Gaúcha Network of Innovation Environments and I have been following Sicredi's presence more closely in these environments in other cities and I see it as very healthy, the cooperative stance that adds not only as an institution that offers and enables access to resources, but also for its expertise in working cooperation, and inspire Startups, including with regard to this offer of resources.” Check out the Business Office project above to be opened in 2022 on the FURG campus, which will have a container as its base for its construction.Relationship In the area of ​​education, Sicredi Interados RS/ES continued to develop in the municipalities of Arroio do Padre and Chuvisca the program A União Faz a Vida – Sicredi's main education program – which aims to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship that develop dialogue, solidarity, respect for diversity, justice and entrepreneurship, contributing to the integral development of children, adolescents and young people throughout Brazil. With PUFV we contribute to the quality of life of members and society, practicing the 5th and 7th principle of Cooperativism: “Promote education, training and interest in the community”. The opening of the 2021 school year was held in person, but we continued to keep educators connected through online actions developed in an integrated manner with the participation of 7 cooperatives and 26 municipalities. With the teams from the secretariats of education we developed the Innovation Trails. Educators relied on Pedagogical Assistance for projects, totaling 212 hours of activities throughout the year. In the two municipalities, we involved 93 teachers, 840 students, in 7 schools, with an investment of more than R$ 61 thousand in 2021. Cooperlândia is the name given by Sicredi to the game created to bring the experiences of cooperativism to schools in our communities. The teaching material, which includes a game, incredible characters, stimulating challenges, in addition to a diary to record adventures, is developed in 4 phases with 28 missions, which provide students with fun and protagonism, by absorbing the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, also working on topics such as leadership, financial education , social entrepreneurship and social inclusion. In addition to the municipalities of Arroio do Padre and Chuvisca, which have already been developing the program since 2020, the Municipal Elementary School Checker Buchaim, from Camaquã, joined the program in the second half of 2021. There are 4 school cooperatives in the process of formation, in the area of ​​activity of Sicredi Interados RS/ES, which have the participation of 113 founding partners – the students themselves. Each of them has the support of a guiding teacher who coordinates activities with the students. For this qualification, we also participate intercooperatively in online studies with 7 cooperatives and 26 municipalities, totaling 100 hours of activities and an investment of more than R$50 thousand in 2021. Focused on future generationsGame attracts students to learn about cooperativism19 Relationships and Cooperativism Responsible SolutionsChapter Responsible Solutions Sicredi is the ideal partner to accompany associates and support you in all your achievements. In a responsible and transparent way, we are together to organize the financial lives of everyone who seeks from from a simple financial organization, to the realization of big dreams, whether personal or business. With Sicr edi you and your achievements are in good hands.22 Annual Report 2021 Agribusiness the engine of the Brazilian economy Sicredi Interados RS/ES Agribusiness has been one of the main drivers of the Brazilian economy, even during the most difficult times faced in this pandemic. Reinforcing its position as one of the financial institutions that grant the most credit to agribusiness in Brazil, Sicredi recorded record increases in the contracting of several rural credit lines in the 2021/2022 Harvest Plan. And in Rio Grande do Sul we continue to make a difference in the lives of our associates and the community. The volume of costing operations released by Sicredi represented 34% of the total, and in relation to the number of contracts, they represented 44%. In investment operations, we represent 38% of the released volume and 45% of total contracts. For person Pronampe provided resources to support companies in continuing their activities during the pandemic. In 2021, we contracted 969 operations with more than R$52.7 million in resources released to members. These results express Sicredi's strength not only as a supplier of resources, but also as a financial institution close to its members, capable of guiding them towards the sustainable development of their business and provide the most appropriate solutions to meet their needs. R$ 189 million. For legal entities, we released R$ 274 million in credit through 5,532 operations.23 Responsible solutions Financial education for a more prosperous life Relationship With the purpose of cooperating towards a sustainable financial life, Sicredi launched its education program nationally in November 2020 financial – Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis. Composed of shares Planned to meet the needs of children, young people and adults, the initiative seeks to bring financial education to the regions in which the cooperatives operate, directly supporting members and local communities. In 2021, we developed seven actions independently with some schools in Pelotas, involving 95 students in their final years and high school. We brought qualifications to the Cooperative's workforce, with the launch of phase 2 of the program, which added 3 more workshops to our portfolio of activities: Financial Reorganization; Financial balance; and Increasing your Income. 115 employees participated in the launch, who were able not only to review their behavior regarding finances, but also to be better prepared to act as financial consultants for members. Two more classes were held, within the pilot project of the Apontando o Lápis Workshop, aimed at Cooperative employees. Other The pilot we participated in was Jornada nas Escolas. Jornada nas Escolas is developed in Canguçu Sicredi Interados RS/ES participated in the 2nd pilot class of the Jornada nas Escolas project of the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, through the cooperation agreement signed with the Municipality of Canguçu, through the Secretariat of Education, Sport and Culture. The first motivation for developing a financial education program in schools is legislation, as in 2018, with the approval of the National Common Curricular Base — the BNCC —, Financial Education becomes mandatory in the school curriculum from 2020 onwards, to be worked on in an interdisciplinary way as a Transversal Contemporary Theme. And Sicredi's proposal with this program is to raise awareness among current and future generations through teacher training, connecting Financial Education to the school curriculum. The main difference of the program is that it works with Financial Education as a real opportunity for social transformation through a focus on Equity. That's why we propose to make it possible, from childhood, to be aware of learning healthy financial habits. Through a pedagogical proposal with its own methodology, we deliver pedagogical materials in dialogue with current legislation, online training and Pedagogical Consultancies that helped educators in their first steps with 24 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interestados RS/ES pedagogical practice of Financial Education, involving 10 schools in Canguçu, 73 teachers and impacting 523 students from classes from the 1st to the 5th year of Elementary School – Early Years. The Journey included 37 hours of training between face-to-face and online sessions. Educators had a platform at their disposal to carry out their studies in a ﬂexible way, fitting them into their routine and needs. The Program's Pedagogical Advisor, Fernanda Chidem, and explains that the proposal is entirely based on active methodologies, which aim at the protagonism of educators and children in the teaching-learning process, and as it is aligned with the BNCC, it works with an integral vision connected with people's reality and also interdisciplinary, that is, Financial Education stops being just Mathematics, just accounts, and starts to integrate the curriculum in all areas of knowledge. “Seeing the teachers involved, sending us the activities described in full detail, with many photos, conﬁrming us that there is, indeed, meaning in what we work on, what we invite them to think about and realizing that they have gone beyond the commonplace to work on ﬁnancial education beyond Mathematics. It is gratifying to see that many teachers begin their work at home, with their children and families in general, to see that the understanding of the role they play is much greater than the classroom space, to realize that the praxis is real and that each person found the best way to introduce the topic into their planning, this gives us the certainty of the mission accomplished.” For the Pedagogical Coordinator of the Department of Education, Lauceni Tessmann Lourenço, it was enchanting to see the way in which the program was conducted. “The lightness of Fernanda Chidem’s pedagogical advice in dealing with this topic motivated us. Financial education has to be worked on in the classroom and we need to prepare for it. This baggage that ENEF week: our history at the tip of the pencil Our work in Financial Education was not born now. We have been working on the topic at Sicredi Interados RS/ES since 2016, when we participated for the first time in the National Financial Education Week (ENEF). This is the time throughout the year when we intensify actions at agencies, seeking to expand the impact on people and communities. In 2021 we participated in the 8th edition through local and systemic actions. Starting ENEF Week In 2021, Sicredi held the live “Sustainable Financial Life”. With a presentation by journalist Paula Valdez, and guests Vera, we acquired it was very important, because we were able to realize that we can work on financial education from the early years, in a light and uncomplicated way. Knowledge transforms lives and the learning from financial education lasts a lifetime.” Through many hands, from different contexts in our country, we are transforming realities through of the Financial Education Program "Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis", seeking, every day, to improve and contribute to meaningful Financial Education and with an eye towards inclusion. In 2022 we will continue in partnership with the municipality of Canguçu, seeking the involvement of 12 more schools in the municipality.25 Responsible solutions Rita de Mello Ferreira, technical advisor of the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, and Eduardo Amuri, author of the books “Dinheiro sem Medo ” and “Finance for Autonomous”. The guests addressed our relationship with money, with practical tips on how behaviors can be developed that help achieve a sustainable financial life. Throughout the week of November 8th to 14th, 2021, we held chats and games with children and young people in several schools in the 12 municipalities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action. In associated companies we hold lectures sensitizing employees on the conscious use of money to achieve personal and professional goals. In the auditorium of the Cooperative Headquarters, members were able to participate in one workshop per day, to reflect on the themes of Finance Myths and Truth; Financial Reorganization; Financial balance; and Increasing your Income. To end the week, on Sunday, Sicredi together with Maurício de Sousa Produções promoted the live Turma da Mônica and Financial Education, broadcast on YouTube, with the main objective of talking to children about importance of financial education, involving and enchanting everyone. The manager of the Gonçalves Chaves de Pelotas agency, Flaviane Bender, talks with satisfaction about how the topic was handled by the team, which led them to carry out 11 actions in 5 days, impacting 333 people. “Our ENEF Week actions were seeds planted through relationships with people, associates and entities. It started with chats with the experience and financial education team, which they made sense and began to happen naturally among employees. The same speech and the same vibe generated connection across business and we took advantage of our partnerships to deal with non-financial solutions, which brought us opportunities and made people fall in love with our proposal.” Thus, through the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis, Sicredi is committed to being a transformative agent and protagonist, promoting relevant actions developed in collaborative way, to meet the needs of different audiences, whether associates or our community, with the aim of making a difference in people's lives and providing a more sustainable financial life, boosting everyone's growth, contributing to a better society. In 6 years of the program, we have already provided financial education to more than 10 thousand people. New legal framework for distributed generation Promote efficient management Distributed Generation is energy electricity generated near consumer installations, such as photovoltaic panels on roofs that generate energy from sunlight. This type of generation has evolved considerably in recent years. Growth was 316% in the last two years, reaching 8,550 MW at the end of 2021. This represents around 5% of all current installed electricity generation capacity in the country. Despite its importance for the Electrical Sector, Distributed Generation had no law that could bring the necessary legal security to agents working in this segment and allow for its growth in a sustainable manner. According to data from the National Electric Energy Agency (Aneel), if the rules in force until then were maintained, Distributed Generation would imply subsidies that would result in the transfer of R$55 billion in costs to other consumers over 15 years. The topic of Distributed Generation was discussed at length in the National Congress with the participation of society and various actors. The law resolves one of the main points regarding the policy related to Distributed Micro and Mini Generation, which is the billing of network usage fees and Electrical System charges. Currently, according to ANEEL Normative Resolution No. 482/2012, these charges do not apply to the entire energy absorbed from the network by the consumer. The measure reaches consumers who generate their own electrical energy, mainly from renewable sources (solar, wind, biomass), and inject the surplus into the local distribution network – the so-called shared generation. Another important point of the regulations is the establishment of the transition period for the new rules (graduality) and the maintenance of the rules for current consumers who implement Distributed Micro and Mini Generation. Associate Paulo Buss, from the municipality of Turuçu, financed his solar energy project in February 2020. “I tried to install the solar energy on the property due to constant increases in electricity bills and predicted shortages. I looked for my account manager and got the financing through Sicredi. Today I am very satisfied because I only pay the minimum rate, and I already have a surplus of more than 7,500 kilowatt hours per month.” 26 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES Solar Energy Project by Turuçu member, Paulo Buss LAW 14,300 /2022 – Regulatory Framework for Distributed Energy Generation É aimed at consumers who generate their own electrical energy, especially through renewable sources. Microgenerators are those that generate up to 75 kW of energy Minigenerators, from 75 kW to 3 thousand kW Own generation systems in operation and new access requests of up to 500 kW made in 2022 will still be regulated by current standards, until 2045.27 Responsible solutions The president of the Rural Union of Rio Grande, member Ronaldo Zechilinski de Oliveira, says that It is already in its 3rd year of using solar energy. “I became interested in solar energy because of sustainability. At the time, I looked for several financial institutions that had a lot of bureaucracy, which tired me out and I had even given up on doing the project. That was when I was introduced to Sicredi, who opened the account within two hours and approved the financing. We installed it on the rural property and it serves the two houses, sheds, all engines running on solar energy and also generates electricity. surplus that I use in commerce in the city. Practically 2/3 of what I pay for financing is what I would spend paying the electricity bill. We got the financing in five years, and as we're almost done paying, we're going to do another project to install another 32 plates, to double production. This was my gateway because today I am a full-time Sicredi member, and I use all the solutions in my farming and in the two stores I have, Rule of Marc's transition to the Legal Solar Energy Project of associate Ronaldo Zechilinski de Oliveira President Sindicato Rural Rio Grande. and I am very happy with the process.” Look for your agency and find out more about Sicredi’s sustainable financing and consortium. In addition to saving money, you will be cooperating with the environment by using a source of renewable energy in your home, property or business. Together for sustainable development According to Aneel's report, the Brazil reached 803.9 thousand photovoltaic installations, a 100% growth compared to December 2020, accompanied by a 98.9% increase in UCS (consumer units receiving credit). The year 2021 represented growth of 51.8% in installed capacity compared to the year 2020. The residential consumption class continues to be the most representative in terms of 28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES number of installations connected to the network, representing 77% of installations, followed by 13% of commercial ones, 8% of rural ones and 2% of industrial ones. Rio Grande do Sul is the 3rd state in the country that received the most investment in solar energy in 2021. Of the sales completed in 2021 through bank financing, Sicredi came in 3rd place, out of a total of 40 institutions mentioned, with 24% of financing. In the last 3 years, Sicredi financed 40% of all solar energy installations in Rio Grande do Sul. In 2020 alone, R$627 were released million allocated to financing for solar energy, serving 11,222 credit operations, which represents 39.38% of the total that was installed in 2020. At Sicredi Interados RS/ES, we released, in 2021, R$ 13.3 million serving 141 contracts and our current portfolio is at R$ 29.1 million in 383 operations. Among the alternatives created by Sicredi to serve members, in addition to credit for solar energy, is the Sustainable Consortium which works as a savings programmed, allowing the acquisition of eco-efficient equipment based on selection by draw or bids, fixed and free. Currently, the Consortium has plans of 60 to 120 months to purchase solar or wind energy generators, water and sewage treatment equipment and LED lighting and solar water heaters, among others. Solar energy project by member Roger Curtinaz Lacerda Nickel, Granja Neto, CamaquãASSOCIATES FULL CREDIT*Our C ooperative in numbers29 Responsible solutions R$ 72.61 3 R$ 77,561 R$ 81.62 5 2019 2020 20217% 5%R$ 745,080 R$ 946.1 25 R$ 1,369 ,667 2019 2020 202127% 45% DEPOSIT TOTALS* SAVINGS ADVANCE* R$ 531.7 10 R$ 747.9 09 R$ 908,226 2019 2020 202141% 21%R$ 323,669 R$ 406.6 86 R$ 474,451 2019 2020 202126% 17% SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY* R$ 189,400 R$ 223.7 71 R$ 271,882 2019 2020 202118% 22% *Data in thousandChapter The pandemic scenario shows us even more strongly the importance of credit cooperatives for our society, as in addition to offering financial solutions at more affordable rates, they are able to add income to communities while meeting the needs of their members. This potential for sustainable local development, where cooperatives and associates go hand in hand, is also disseminated through cooperative education, which provides the protagonism of associates, visualizing a true flight into the future.Local development Inaugurated Arena Sicredi next to Pelotas Parque Tecnológic oFostering the Local Economy The Sicredi Arena was opened in September 2021 on the premises of Pelotas Parque Tecnológic. A space for presentations, events and quick meetings. This environment will be open for use by all companies in the Park, with the aim of assisting in business development, promoting entrepreneurship and innovation in our region. The Cooperative will also hold events in this space, expanding partnership with companies and entities, contributing to and strengthening this innovation ecosystem. 32 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES Insight Sul, the largest in-person and digital innovation event in Rio Grande do Sul, was held by Sebrae RS in the Cooperativa's auditorium. The partnership allowed connecting people, ideas and regions, through experiences divided into Innovation Hubs in Pelotas, Rio Grande and Lajeado. Several nationally renowned speakers they discussed new business models, soft skills, intrapreneurship, trends and disruption, as well as a panel with mayors on smart cities, startup competitions and exhibitions and the success stories of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. More than 3,300 people participated online, more than 700 people in person and more than 20 hours of content. Through the partnership with the Pelotas Commercial Association, we hosted the 2nd edition of the Women of Negócio Zona Sul, an event that opens space for women from different areas to update themselves, share knowledge and network. In addition to several lectures and talk shows, participants had access to the business fair, which took place in the Headquarters parking lot, with the participation of 30 brands and companies owned by female entrepreneurs. Partnerships with entities promote local development The facilities at the new Cooperative Headquarters, in Pelotas, had a special highlight with the auditorium with capacity for 400 people. In addition to being used for events promoted and organized by the cooperative itself, it was used by other organizations, aiming at the economic development of the regions where we operate. This was possible through partnerships and agreements with local and regional organizations. The Association of Municipalities of the South Zone (Azonasul) also held the ceremony to hand over the Entrepreneurship Trophy in the auditorium of Sicredi Interados RS/ES South Zone, bringing together political and business leaders to pay tribute to 21 personalities who stood out in the region over the last few years. At the opening of the event, the president of the Cooperative, Nilson Ireno Loec k, thanked everyone for their presence and highlighted the importance of the auditorium, built and organized to benefit the community with its use, in addition to also beautifying the northern part of the city. The Executive Director, Edson Carlos Marques, took the opportunity to present Sicredi and what the Cooperative has done for the community through a cooperative and income-aggregating business model, which promotes development through the purpose of building a more prosperous society together. The event took place in a hybrid format, with live broadcast on social media and brought together more than 150 people in the auditorium. The auditorium facilities at the Cooperative Headquarters also hosted other events promoted by construction companies and real estate agencies associated with the Cooperative who launched the projects for their customers. Emater, Rural Workers Unions and the Pelotas Fire Department also used the Headquarters' meeting rooms. These spaces are available to members throughout our coverage area, contributing to the development of our communities. 33 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES 34 Local development Evolution of the workforcePromoting development of People In 2021, in addition to the business challenges faced by the Covid-19 pandemic, we continued to evolve in our purpose through actions aligned with Strategic Planning. In general, the opportunities for business expansion in the areas of activity and the acceleration of digital transformation influenced the growth of the Cooperative's workforce. The year 2021 was one of many advances in the cooperative and the outlook for 2022 is the emergence of new opportunities for the area of ​​activity of RS and ES. Learning Platform – Sicredi Aprendis In 2021, organizations experienced changes caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the Cooperative was no different. The online learning strategy was widely used to help employees in their development. Sicredi Aprendi continued to evolve! For 2022, the tool will implement improvements and revitalize content across thematic axes. Climate Survey 2021 The biggest objective of Our strategy is to have a business model that puts the associate at the center of everything we do. And one of the drivers of this vision of the future is Engaged People. In 2021, our Climate Survey began to be carried out within the Great Place to Work (GPTW) methodology and was applied to all employees of the system. The criteria for obtaining certification in the climate survey is to achieve at least 70% and the score obtained by Sicredi was 88%. With this confidence index We achieved GPTW certiﬁcation together! This qualifies us with the GPTW Certiﬁcation seal, as one of the best companies to work for. Doing good without looking at who Contributes to the development of communities "Doing good without looking at who" – a very common phrase uttered by many people, but which above all must be put into practice. This is what cooperative members do on Day C – Cooperate Day – when employees engage with communities and unite to bring kindness and love to the hearts of those most in need. This national initiative organized 13 years ago by the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) seeks to demonstrate the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. The date is always celebrated on the 1st Saturday of July, in honor of International Cooperative Day. On that day, participating organizations carry out social responsibility actions in the communities, aligned with the principles of cooperativism, through volunteer initiatives. In 2021, this date had an even greater objective: to minimize the impacts of the pandemic, especially on Brazilians' tables. And if the subject is cooperation for a better world, it is clear that Sicredi supports this cause. Sicredi Interados RS/ES was engaged in the Food Collection Campaign along with the other 107 cooperatives, spread across 25 states in the country plus the 35 Local Development Federal District. To engage the community to participate in the campaign, the cooperative held the C-Day Journey, five days of lives, from 28/06 to 02/07, on Facebook and Youtube, bringing topics of relevance to members such as Culture and Digital Transformation at Sicredi; Understanding how social media can help your business; Innovation and entrepreneurship in times of pandemic; in addition to topics related to the area of ​​education and personal care. The lectures were recorded and you can review them by accessing the QR Code on the side. The food collection campaign, which had the support of 48 businesspeople associated with the Cooperative, raised 30.6 tons of food, destined for 24 entities, which benefited 6,183 people.36 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Interados RS/ES For Sicredi, C Day is a pact with sustainable development, much more than a day full of solidarity. It is one of Sicredi's initiatives that materialize its commitment to the Pact Global. The Global Compact is an initiative of the United Nations (UN) that aims to encourage companies to adopt corporate social responsibility and sustainability policies by adhering to the ten principles related to human rights, work, the environment and corruption. By joining the initiative, Sicredi commits to adopting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as guides for sustainable development. The 17 SDGs were deﬁned by the UN with the aim of engaging organizations from around the world in goals such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources by 2030. Find out more about C-Day by visiting the website https://www.sicredi.com .br/site/diac/. Social Fund invests more than R$ 500 thousand for entities in the region The core coordinators of each municipality in the area of ​​action of Sicredi Interados RS/ES, accompanied by the managers of the agencies and the Relationship Advisory, During the month of May, they carried out the evaluation of the 265 projects registered in the 2021 Social Fund. The Social Fund is formed from the final result of each year of the Cooperative (before allocations), with 1.5% of the surplus being distributed , representing in 2021 R$537 thousand. As reported by the Cooperative's Relationship Programs Advisor, Raquel Machado dos Santos, this year, we had 111 projects covered and 105 entities benefited. “Given the scenario that we are living in, even with the reﬂects of the pandemic, the evaluation committee took great account of meeting the basic needs of families. And when giving feedback to the entities, it is very gratifying to receive comments, such as: “you have no idea what a difference this donation will make to the lives of the beneficiaries of our project.”, he concludes. The Social Fund has been implemented in the Cooperative since 2016, and in these six years R$ 1.7 million have already been invested for entities in the region. “For us, interest in the community is a responsibility and through the Social Fund we exercise and express this. We wish to support activities that bring representative and signiﬁcant benefits and improvements to each community, through projects aimed at education, sport, culture, health and safety”, explains Edson Carlos Marques, Executive Director of Sicredi Interados RS/ES. For more information about the social fund, please contact via email: coop0663_fundosocial@sicredi.com.br or by phone: 53. 3284. 8600 with Raquel Santos. Visit the website sicredi.com.br/interestados, in the Documents and Reports menu and find out about the projects included in 2021. Service network Cooperativa de Crédito, Savings and Investment Interados Sicredi Interados RS/ES Av. Dom Joaquim Ferreira de Melo, 1087 CEP 96.020-260 – Pelotas/RS (53) 3284.8600 Turuçu Rua Reinaldo Harter, 21 (53) 3277-1263 / 1300 CEP 96.148-000 Morro Redondo Av. dos Pinhais, 02 (53) 3224-1132 / 1178 CEP 96.150-000 Cristal Rua Lajeado, 251 (51) 3678-1111 / 1360 CEP 96.195-000 Arroio do Padre Avenida Vinte e Cinco de Julho, 33 - Block G (53) 3224-9127 / 9128 CEP 96.155-000 Dom Feliciano Av. Borges de Medeiros, 292 (53) 3677-1011 / 1019 CEP 96.015-420Santa Vitória do Palmar Rua Barão do Rio Branco, 549 (53) 3263-3249/ 3484 CEP 96.230-970 Chuvisca Avenida 28 de Outubro, 2879 (51) 3611-7276 CEP 96.193-000 SÃO LOURENÇO DO SUL São Lourenço do Sul Rua Senador Pinheiro Machado, 41 (53) 3251-3033 / 2309 CEP 96.170-000 Business Office Boa Vista RS 265, Boa Vista, 6o. Distrito São Lourenço do Sul (53) 98459-9507 and (53)98459-9588PELOTAS Salgado Filho Av. Senador Salgado Filho, 503 (53) 3273-2003 / 2004 CEP 96.055-740 – Pelotas RS Netto Rua Gal. Netto, 1254 (53) 3227-6922 / 6908 / 6649 CEP 96.015-280 – Pelotas RS Gonçalves Chaves R. Gonçalves Chaves, 702 (53) 3227-8600 / 0377 CEP 96.015-420 Fragata Av. Duque de Caxias, 556 (53 ) 3309. 4100 CEP 96.040-790 – Pelotas RS Dom Joaquim Av. Dom Joaquim Ferreira de Melo, 1087 (53)3274.8226 CEP 96.020-260CAMAQUÃ Camaquã I Rua Olavo Moraes, 1035 (51) 3671-1290 / 1454 CEP 96.180- 000 Camaquã II Rua Olavo Moraes, 468 (53) 3671.6226 / 2335 CEP: 96.180-000 CANGUÇU Canguçu Rua Júlio de Castilhos, 1079 (53) 3252-3436 / 3059 CEP 96.600-000 Canguçu II Rua General Osorio, 1350 (53) 3252.4 114 CEP 96.600-000 RIO GRANDE Rio Grande Rua Marechal Floriano, 137 / 139 (53) 3233-9090 CEP 96.200-380 Vila da Quinta Rua Trajano Lopes, 162 (53) 3239-1046 CEP 96.222-796Pinheiros Praça Governador Lacerda de Aguiar, 29 (27) 99744.4295 / (27) 99899.1540 CEP 29.980-000 Linhares Avenida Augusto Pestana, 1150 Room inside the Workers Union rural lovers (27) 9 9242-5788 CEP 29.900-210