SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPR ANNUAL REPORT 2020JAN 2020DEC 2020 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPPresidency Maura Carrara President Ronaldo Bocucce Schlogl Vice-president Board of Directors Evandro Jose Agostini Giovana Perosa Joedir Francisco de Ré Lourival Malagutti Neiva Trento Osmar Martins Silverio Constantino Valter Pitol Effective Fiscal Council José Oldair Dechechi Juliane Maria Chessin Mariza Trevisol Fiscal Council Alternate Cleber Moreto Sandra Cristina Gardenal Silva Board of Directors Executive Alex Fabiano Duarte Executive Director Elder de Oliveira Business Director Elio Kawka Junior Director of Operations Administrative Headquarters Managers Alexandre Rubini Ambrosio Development and Expansion Amadeu Rodrigo Moraes de Lima Products and Services Anderson Haas Strategy, Innovation and Efficiency André Alonso Brito Investimentos Flavio Rodrigo Schmitz Credit Handrey Araujo Balbino Credit Cycle Maria Eduarda Miranda Processes and Quality Yves Hide Saloio Infrastructure and IT of Cooperative Danieli Paluski Shared Services David Crepaldi Junior Recovery Credit Denise Bez Fontana Credit Cycle Fernanda de Oliva Communication and Marketing Isabella Victoria de Camargo Foltran Products and Services Luiz Henrique Hellmann Cordeiro Internal Controls Maria Luiza Poletto Processes and Quality Paulino Moacir Moreira Junior Investments Pedro William Soares de Farias Investments Rafael da Silva Dornelles Business Center Rafael Gnach Legal Renan Fanegas dos Santos Credit Reinaldo Benedete Junior Infrastructure Ricardo Antonio do Nascimento Infrastructure Shana Baldissera People ManagementAgency Managers - PR Aldieres José Pereira Jesuits Carlos Luis Ivan Kellner Jotaesse and Palmitopolis Edimar Junior Patrício Cafelândia and Os Pioneiros Edyvaldo Favero Formosa do Oeste José Fernando Escher Corbélia Juciani Mudolon Nova Aurora Márcio Schienemaier Antonio Iracema do Oeste Agency Managers - SP Amauri Rosa de Camargo Porto Feliz André Ricardo Trentin Cerquilho Célia Regina Calegare Hernandes Tietê Cesar Junior Spear Indaiatuba Jardim Morada do Sol Daniel de Oliveira Vieira Tatuí Kleber Mauro Catojo Schivitaro Laranjal Paulista Luiz Tiago Correa Moretti Cesário Lange Marcio Gebara Varaschin Lençóis Paulista Roberto Emílio da Silva Indaiatuba Sergio Sanchez Carrascoza Salto Willian Andrade Ferreira Boituva Coordination Communication and Marketing Advisory Photographic Credits Sicredi Collection Nossa Terra ACIAS Archive Bruno Mafra Edson Dias Felipe Lourenço Lucas Muniz Almeida Jhenifer Caroline Simili Borges Review and Approval Maura Carrara President of Cooperativa Sicredi Nossa Terra PR/SPIn a year in which the cooperation made the difference, once again we showed how the strength of unity overcomes challenges. Even though we were far apart, we were getting closer and closer. Therefore, this Report highlights, in a timeline, how we overcame all obstacles and made this year a true learning experience. And yet, we achieved great achievements. Are we going to follow everything we did together? One thing is certain, we will come out of 2020 stronger as a cooperative and as people. We are ready to start 2021 in search of new results. And we count on you to be part of this new journey.JAN 2020DEC 2020Presence of Sicredi in Brazil 08 An Inspiring Mission 08 Systemic Highlights 09 Message from the President 13 Highlights Nossa Terra PR/SP Collaborator Convention 16 Youth Committee is an example for the world 18 “Grow ” Cooperative Training Program 19 32nd Coopavel Rural Show 20 Assemblies 2020 22 Draw Award-Winning Application 25 Women's Week 28 Whoever reinvents themselves grows 32 Governance: Board of Directors Administration 34 Virtual Ordinary General Assembly 35 Final draw for the Prize-Winning Application Virtual event 37 New way of interacting 38 Save and Earn Without Stopping Promotion 40 Life Insurance gives prizes 41 Agência Laranjal Paulista 42 Day C: Cooperate Day 44 Day C: Live # FicaNaCozinha 47 Day C: Families on Cooperation Day 48 Day C: Collection deliveries 50 Leadership Training 52 SUMMARYThe Union Makes Life Online 54 Live Regina Shudo 55 Launch of the 2019/2020 Harvest Plan 56 Arrancadão 58 Ocepar System promotes meeting of female leaders 59 A New Concept of Service: Formosa do Oeste 60 Prevention Hour 64 Teacher's Day 65 Extraordinary General Assembly 66 Opening of the Lençóis Paulista branch 69 Opening of the Cesário Lange branch 70 Crescer em Laranjal Program Paulista 72 National Financial Education Week (ENEF) 73 Reopenings: Jesuits and Nova Aurora 74 Stories of those who cooperate More than a craft, an art 78 Rural tourism reconnects people to nature 79 Grapes on the tree, an experience with nature 80 Energy with the power of the Sun 81 Our Numbers Management Balance 84 Management Income Statement 84 Comparisons and Evolutions 85 Strategic Planning Guidelines 86 Area of ​​activity of Regional Nossa Terra PR/ SP 87Presence of Sicredi in Brazil An Inspiring Mission4.91 million Associates 23 states and the Federal District 1,978 branches R$158.2 billion in assets reinvested in the community R$20.2 billions in net worth, from everyone to everyone How We Are We value relationships Our Business Offer financial solutionsOur Purpose Add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society What We Are We are a cooperative system*Data referring to the month of December of 2020. 30 thousand employees who know our associates closely 08 ANNUAL REPORTBest & Biggest Systemic Highlights 2020 from Exame Magazine Sicredi appears again among the 50 Largest Banks that are part of Exame Magazine’s Best & Biggest guide. Highlighting 2nd place in the Rural Credit ranking. It also appears in 11 other categories, including: Credit for Medium Companies, Savings Deposits, Credit Card Issuers, Corporate Credit, Individuals and Real Estate. Sicredi also achieved positions in the indicators of Total Adjusted Assets, Account Holders, Loans and Financing, Agencies and Revenue Financial Intermediation and Services. Greater volume of rural credit under the Safra Plan According to the Central Bank, Sicredi provided the largest volume of credit under the 2019/2020 Safra Plan. This is the highest amount released among private institutions. Considering all institutions (public and private), Sicredi was the second largest transfer agent. Top 100 Open Startups We appear for the first time in this ranking that refers to the 100 most open companies for innovation in the world Brazil. 100 Open Startups is a platform sponsored by global companies that jointly evaluate and rank startups from around the world. The most attractive startups are selected by large companies to collaborate in the development of high-impact innovations for society and the market. Annual ranking of the best projections of the Central Bank We were the only participant to be among the best in all market variables analyzed in the “Top 5 Annual”, ranking published by the Central Bank of Brazil to classify the most consistent monthly economic projections throughout the year and which takes into account a Market Expectations System. We were highlighted: IPCA, IGP-M, Exchange Rates and Selic. 09 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPDistic Highlights Top Asset from Revista Investidor Institucional The ranking classified Sicredi in Resources from Open Pensions: the institution recorded the third highest growth in the last 12 months and the fifth best performance in the last six months. It is also worth mentioning that, in the general classification, Sicredi once again ranked 18th among the more than 140 asset managers evaluated in Brazil. Credit cooperative scenario in Brazil We integrated, alongside the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), Central Bank of Brazil, Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA), the study “Benefits of Credit Cooperativism: impact on banking” . The study showed that cooperatives can be an excellent vehicle for bringing credit and other financial services to the population. Currently, in more than 200 municipalities, we are the only financial institution, generating opportunity, income and financial inclusion. I cooperate with the local economy To stimulate economic development by supporting entrepreneurs and engaging people in favor of the local economy, we launched the “I Cooperate with the Local Economy” movement. We brought content that explains everything from what social networks are, how to create business accounts on these media, content tips, micromarketing, customer service, cash flow, negotiation with suppliers and opportunities for innovation with digital payment methods, to e-books for download. World Council Young Credit Union People (WYCUP) Seven projects supported by us competed for an international award aimed at youth leadership in credit unions. World Council Young Edit Credit Union People (WYCUP). The projects we support were created by collaborators and associates and benefit cities in the Central-West, North, Southeast and South regions of Brazil, in addition to an initiative aimed at children and adolescents in Haiti. The project developed by associate Vinícius Mattia, Family Agriculture and Sustainable Food, was among the three best initiatives presented in this year's edition. 10 ANNUAL REPORTSystemic Highlights Women: national strategy To enhance the agenda of inclusion and diversity throughout its structure, Sicredi launched the Sicredi Woman Committee program at a national level in September. The initiative encompasses a set of actions that seek to promote gender equity, empowerment and training of women so that they can participate in management at all levels of the organization and increase their representation in credit cooperatives. We are part of the UN Global Compact Since January this year we have been members of the Global Compact, the main initiative of the United Nations (UN) for the private sector. It is the largest corporate sustainability network in the world, made up of more than 13 thousand companies, from more than 160 countries, committed to carrying out actions for sustainable development with the aim of positively expanding the economic, social and environmental impact. The Global Compact calls on companies to align their operating and business strategies with 10 universal principles in the areas of Rights Humans, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Those who are part of the initiative are also committed to contributing to achieving the global sustainability agenda, the 2030 Agenda, whose main pillar is the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (the SDGs).11 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP12 ANNUAL REPORTWithout a doubt, we can say that 2020 was an unimaginable year. And once again we demonstrate our ability to adapt and overcome adversity. Even though distant, we were closer than ever to our associates, collaborators, educators and communities. Yes, we were much closer to people! In such an adverse year, we diligently adopted measures and improved channels to help everyone stay safe. We take care of our communities, promoting small businesses, encouraging and valuing the local economy. We use technology to meet your needs, we invest in education, we reinvent the way of being with our leaders, members of the Youth and Women committees, collaborators, educators. This year we discovered how supportive people are. In a campaign that raised tons of food and more than R$150,000 for social institutions and mobilized thousands of viewers online, Cooperation Day will go down in history. Staying at home (in the kitchen) and still interacting with other people has never been so enjoyable. Even though in a pandemic we experience a cycle of expansion and growth Experiencing a new agency concept, we provide a more innovative and relational model, comfortable and welcoming, digital and personal, more open to the community. Finally, we know our responsibility in developing people and perpetuating the organization. This is how we look to the future, stronger and inspired to pursue our cooperative ideal, building a more prosperous society together. Maura Carrara Maura Carrara PresidentMessage from the President13 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPDhighlights Our Earth PR/SPEmployee Convention Digital as we need to be, human as only we are This was the theme that opened the work of 2020, preparing us for an innovative year. Our employees experienced, at the Annual Convention, a new concept of agency and witnessed the beginning of a transformative year for Our Earth. With the guidance of author Marcos Piangers, together we started the year moving towards the construction of an increasingly humane cooperative that makes technology a bridge to bring people together. JAN 2020 16 ANNUAL REPORT17 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPComitê Jovem is an example for the world JAN 2020 International delegation visited our cooperative Motivated by the question “how to engage young people around the world in cooperativism?”, we received the delegation of young people from the World Council of Credit Unions (WOCCU) to meet our Youth Committee. The group, with members from Poland and the United States, immersed themselves in Brazil and we were chosen as an example and inspiration for other countries. 18 ANNUAL REPORT “Grow” Cooperative Training Program JAN 2020 People who cooperate, transform To introduce the culture of cooperativism to members, we carried out the “Grow – Cooperative Training Program” program in cities in São Paulo with recently opened branches. At that moment, guests were able to understand more about Sicredi as a cooperative financial institution.19 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPNo agribusiness, credit cooperativism has strong roots For another year we were together at one of the biggest national agribusiness fairs. A partnership that is consolidated with each new harvest, when rural producers have the opportunity to learn about new technologies to diversify and improve their property, with the support of credit cooperative financing.32nd Coopavel Rural Show FEB 2020 20 ANNUAL REPORT21 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPParticipation that makes a difference Do you know what your participation in the Assemblies means for your cooperative? It means the democratization of our decisions. Because we value the ownership role of each member. In 2020, we brought together more than 5 thousand people, from February to March. Integrating physical and digital, we presented the Financial Statements in audiovisual format and, once again, we innovated with the joint construction of the format of the assemblies, we had 92% approval in the survey applied.Assemblies 2020 FEB 2020 22 ANNUAL REPORT23 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP24 ANNUAL REPORTJesuítas Formosa do Oeste Iracema do Oeste Jotaesse Campaign drew more than R$500,000 in prizes For another year, we offered prizes to encourage members to plan their future. We saw many of them vibrate when they were considered during the Core Assemblies in the Prize Application draws. Dozens of dreams came true. We deliver, to each agency, a Smart TV, a drone, a Honda Bros and a Honda Biz.Sorteio Winning Application 01 10 14 0903 0712 1602 0611 1504 0813 17FEB 2020 Palmitópolis 0525 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPCorbélia Cerquilho Boituva Porto Feliz TatuíSalto Tietê 18 2430 383420 22 263 2 40 283619 2531 393521 23 2733 41 2937 26 ANNUAL REPORTCafelândia Nova Aurora 42 46 44 48 5043 47 45 49 51 Smart TV Agency Drone Honda Bros Honda Bis Jotaesse Maria de Lourdes Pereira Alvarez 01 Derek Douglas Bonacio 02 Valdencyr Ferreira da Silva 03 Ivonete Rodrigues Chaves 04 Palmitópolis Maria Gomes Cavalcante *Maria Gomes Cavalcante *Salvador de Souza Vale 05 Andre Vinicius Granemann Souza * Iracema do Oeste Armelindo Peres 06 Moacir de Fendi 07 José Roberto Marconi 08 Antonio Paulo de Oliveira 09 Formosa do Oeste Francisco Batista Dos Santos 10 Antonio Fanhani 11 Antonio Fanhani 12 Edgard Antonio Vendramini 13 Jesuítas Aparecido Gervazio 14 Eron Batista Neves 15 Antonia Perez Gervazio 16 José Carlos Barriquello 17 Corbélia Rosnei Buhler 18 Veroni Spohn Mensch 19 Valerio Tebaldi 20 Darci Maggioni 21 Porto Feliz Adriano de Moraes Bisso *Angelieri Castelucci Cia Ltda Epp 22 Angelieri Castelucci Cia Ltda Epp 22João de Barro Arquitetura e Urbanismo Ltda Me 23 Boituva Aparecido da Silva 24 Placido Dias Fernandes 25 Claudio Aparecido da Silva 26 Karmem Comercio de Colchões Ltda 27 Tietê Alberto Polastre 28 Ary Luis Batistuzzo *Alessandro Simon 29 Carlos Alberto Rodrigues de Camargo * Cerquilho Reinaldo Casa Grande 30 Confecçoes Paezani Viegas Ltda 31 Confecçoes Paezani Viegas Ltda 32Sidney Lent Junior and Associates Corporate Law Epp 33 Salto Tiago Borin de Paula 34Gonçalves Mantovani Negocios Imobiliarios Ltda 35Christiane Lucia Vieira Perassolli 36 Maria Claudiana Zimbardi Micai 37 Tatuí Valquiria Fátima da Silva 38 Aparecida Maria Millen de Miranda 39 Valquiria Fátima da Silva 40 Aparecida Maria Millen de Miranda 41 Nova Aurora Maria Aparecida Agostini 42 Osvaldo Virgilio de Oliveira 43 M Ravazzoli e Cia Ltda Me 44 Rosalina Albano Oenning 45 Cafelândia Centro João Francisco Zaparolli Maria Julia Peron Pereira 47 Luiza Squizatto Bertotti Montmaq Ltda Cafelândia Os Pioneiros Arildo Martins Ferreira Edinilson José Tomazini Boti 48 Rosa Oenning Eising Alexsandra Silvia NovackList of Winners * Member was not present. No photo.27 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPWomen's Week MAR 2020 Together we make history Each year, the role of women intensifies in cooperativism. Encouraging this movement is essential for us. For To celebrate International Women's Day, we brought in image consultant Juliana Bacellar to contribute to the self-esteem of our employees and leaders. In recognition of the celebration, we presented associates and collaborators with a handbag scarf. 28 ANNUAL REPORTFemale leadership Recognized for her strong leadership among cooperative women, president Maura Carrara - the first woman to occupy the top management position of the entire Sicredi System - was in Salto (SP), in the Events Space of the Commercial and Industrial Association (ACIAS) to share with dozens of women their personal and professional trajectory, aligned with the protagonism of women entrepreneurs.29 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPMAR 2020Programa A União Faz a Vida We are engaged in the cause of education and we reaffirm our belief that investing in knowledge is a concrete way of contributing to a more just and supportive society through cooperation. The Union Makes Life Program is the Sicredi's main social responsibility initiative and promotes the integral education of children and adolescents, through a methodology that encourages the practice of cooperation and citizenship. We started 2020 by taking an important step in the municipality of Cafelândia, where we carried out the initial qualification of the Program for more than 90 Early Childhood Education Educators in the municipality. The training took place in the Os Pioneiros space and for three days the teachers delved deeper into the program methodology and were able to develop projects with their students. 30 ANNUAL REPORTTo guarantee the pedagogical and administrative quality of the Program, our pedagogical advisors participated in continuing training, held in Maringá. The training covered topics such as the use of technological tools, the National Common Curricular Base relationship, the A União Faz A Vida Program and emotional intelligence. In order to welcome you to the In the first days of the school year, in all schools that develop the program, we take the theater play “O Resgate do Professor”. Aimed at educators and children, the play portrayed the importance of the Teacher in education, mixing the enchanted world of children with the program's actions through the interaction of actors with students. 31 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPMAR 2020Whoever reinvents themselves, grows In times of social isolation, we took a series of measures to contain the spread of the new coronavirus keeping the focus on our associates. We optimize our opening hours, protect our employees, adopt sanitary measures, expand our relationship channels and implement new ways of relating. We boosted our digital channels and encouraged the use of applications and Internet Banking. This movement certainly impacted us, but we remained close without being together. 32 ANNUAL REPORT33 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPMaintaining unity, transparency and commitment to our cooperative and members, in the face of an extremely challenging scenario, Nossa Terra's achievements and achievements were due to the innovative vision of a cohesive council in decision-making. Governance: Board of Directors MAR 2020 34 ANNUAL REPORT Legitimizing the role of owner We reinvented ourselves! We held our first Ordinary General Assembly virtually and successfully closed the period accountability. Through digital platforms, advisors and delegates consolidated the votes of the Core Assemblies, legitimizing the role of each of our more than 41 thousand members. Virtual Ordinary General Assembly MAR 202035 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP36 ANNUAL REPORTFinal draw for the Prize Application Virtual eventMAR 2020 Ilidia Rodrigues Domingues (Jesuítas-PR) Claudemir Aparecido Ranussi (Jesuítas-PR) Rosangela da Conceição Coelho (Tatuí-SP)A new channel of relationship Even without being able to be close, we found an option to interact with our associates. Thus, we carried out the Final Draw for the Award-Winning Application on our social networks. With a live broadcast on facebook.com/SicrediMinhaTerra we raffled off the long-awaited Fiat Toro, the Fiat Mobi and an Apple Kit.37 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPNew way of interacting MAR 2020 38 ANNUAL REPORTWe included new ways of contacting our associates. We launched a podcast series (digital audios) with economic analyzes on the impact of the coronavirus on the Brazilian economy. We implemented Sicredi Conecta, a marketing space via app, for buying and selling, among members, encouraging the local economy. We implemented payment via QR-Code in the Sicredi app and put WhatsApp Enterprise and Theo, our virtual customer service agent, into operation in all our branches. We optimized our Agile Agro, which became even faster. We adopt a new account opening platform, an Active Business Center and, all of this, to help you and be closer to other relationship channels.39 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPSave and Win Promotion Without StoppingMAR 2020 Winner Rovaildo Pepe de Boituva (SP )Winner Maria Valeria Nallin Salvador de Cerquilho (SP) Winner José Druczkouski and wife of Corbélia (PR)Financial security is for everyone In a scenario of insecurity, we experience in practice the importance of having a financial reserve. Savings broke fundraising records with the campaign. And in Our Land we also had winners. 40 ANNUAL REPORTElita Ines Schmitt (Nova Aurora-PR) Leomar Antônio Ruffato (Corbélia-PR)Mais em Vida Insurance is money in your pocket In addition to providing protection against unforeseen events, our insurance also provides rewards. Mr. Leomar Antônio Ruffato, from Corbélia, PR, and Mrs. Elita Ines Schimitt, from Nova Aurora, PR, were included in Seguro Mais em Vida and each received R$50 thousand. Life Insurance awards prizes MAY 2020 Sicredi Seguros LIFE INSURANCE R$ 50,000.0041 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPAnother new achievement Focusing on the member experience, we opened our Agency in Laranjal Paulista (SP). It brought a concept of shared spaces to generate business, a collaborative environment that provides members with specialized consultancy, coffee and coworking* and an entire structure designed and made available to the community. Orange Agency PaulistaMAI 2020 * shared workspace. 42 ANNUAL REPORT43 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPDia C: Cooperation Day JUN 2020 The Day that made history at Sicredi We celebrate Cooperative Day, Day C, through a joint action involving associates, leaders, employees, civil society partners, entities public and private in pursuit of one objective: benefiting social institutions and people at risk and vulnerability. 44 ANNUAL REPORT45 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP46 ANNUAL REPORTDay C: Live #FiqueNaCozinhaJUN 2020 Voluntary action between associates, leadership and employees Encouraged by the president, we held the live #FiqueNaCozinha with Maura Carrara who opened the doors of her home to welcome thousands of people online and cook her traditional chicken bobo. The action motivated fundraising in favor of 22 social entities. The online event impacted around 20 thousand people on social media and mobilized more than 7 thousand direct spectators. As part of the action, our agencies promoted a huge campaign to collect and allocate non-perishable food, personal hygiene and cleaning items, blankets, blankets and cash. 47 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPDDay C: Families on Cooperation Day Recipe is served to more than one hundred people The closing of the actions took place on the first Saturday of July, the International Day of Cooperativism, where more than 100 people from 27 Jesuit families ( PR), they received a meal produced by the President in their homes. Maura Carrara returned to the kitchen and, not only prepared the Bobó de Frango but also served lunchbox by lunchbox, alongside volunteers, she ensured a delicious lunch, prepared with great care, for families accompanied by the Pastoral do Auxílio Fraterno and the municipal Guardianship Council.JUL 2020 48 ANNUAL REPORT49 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPCooperation that makes a difference The action totaled R$156 thousand, 15 tons of food, 12 thousand hygiene and cleaning items, 3 thousand geriatric diapers, 2.4 thousand masks, 1 thousand liters of milk and 200 blankets that were destined for 22 social organizations chosen by our cooperative. And it didn't stop there, with the support of the Board of Directors, Sicredi Nossa Terra PR/SP delivered to the Municipal Health Departments in its area of ​​operation in Paraná and São Paulo more than 2 thousand kits to combat COVID19.JUL 2020 Day C: Deliveries of 50 collections ANNUAL REPORT51 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPOvement becomes stronger In a troubled year, we have never heard so much about cooperation. Therefore, strengthening our leadership has become even more important. The training did not stop and, throughout social isolation, the Youth and Women Committees, Counselors and Delegates, in online meetings, shared knowledge to add new practices. Leadership Training: Youth Committee Coordinated by Central PR/SP/RJ, the training of young leaders brought topics such as Soft Skills, Post-Covid World and Systemic Vision, Resilience and Grit in times of crisis, New Economy and Cooperativism, Fourth Industrial Revolution and real-time challenges. Our young people updated themselves and brought solutions to our communities. Leadership Training: Women’s Committee “Whole People to Woman the World” was the name of the course offered to the members of our committee, also coordinated by Central PR/SP/RJ. In an impactful way, the course predicted change of women's mentality, bringing light to today, contributing to the reduction of unconscious and cultural biases that prevent the rise of women in leadership positions, especially in cooperatives.JUL 2020Leadership Training 52 ANNUAL REPORTLeadership Training: Delegates and Vices Concentrated on roles played by group leaders, delegates and in representing the membership, the training offered had great names such as professor Doutor Alexandre Di Miceli da Silveira, who brought important reflection on the qualities for success in the post-covid world, Professor Luiz Carlos Cabrera spoke about the roles played by leaders in governance. Leadership Training: Administrative and Fiscal Councilors A significant workload was designed to provide administrative and fiscal councilors with information and repertoire for their functions in the cooperative. The counselors immersed themselves in studies to reform the Bylaws and systemic documents, providing support and security in the approval of these important regulations that govern the day-to-day operations of the cooperative. 53 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP At the end of the first quarter of 2020, we were hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, which caused institutions and other educational programs to reduce, or even paralyze, their actions in schools. The “A União Faz a Vida” program continued side by side with education to face the crisis, contributing to solidarity and support actions through lives with professionals and experts, training and advice for teachers. During this period we offered online training, via WhatsApp, where educators received knowledge pills (videos and texts) lasting a maximum of five minutes, twice a week, with activities that were always dynamic, easy and quick. At the end, the course offered a 20-hour certification. The format of online broadcast meetings It was widely used to bring knowledge to teachers. Broadcasts with topics such as teaching tools, the National Common Curricular Base, the role of the school, assessment in times of pandemic, emotional health and the school of the future. These actions reinforced the incentive of the A União Faz a Vida Program for families and schools during social isolation.JUL 2020A União Faz a Vida Online 54 ANNUAL REPORTJUL 2020Live Regina ShudoCooperation that makes a difference And speaking of new practices, The União Faz a Vida Program, together with teachers and partners, sought ways to expand the creativity of educators with training via social networks and a live broadcast that impacted more than 15 thousand people in the school community. The Specialist in Early Childhood Education and Teaching Methodology, Regina Shudo, put “education in times of pandemic” on the agenda, both at school and at home. 55 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPPlano Safra. Count on our support and do more in this Minister of Agriculture participated in a meeting with associates Even without being able to be nearby, we maintained our tradition in making the Safra Plan official and met with our agricultural associates. The meeting was attended by big names in national agribusiness, including the Minister of Agriculture, Tereza Cristina, the former minister and Special Ambassador of the FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations) for World Cooperatives, Roberto Rodrigues, and the president of Copacol, Valter Pitol. The virtual meeting welcomed more than 500 rural producers and Technical Advisors who, at the end, were surprised with an exclusive gift from Our Earth.JUL 2020 Launch of the 2019/2020 Harvest Plan 56 ANNUAL REPORTTereza Cristina Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Supply Roberto Rodrigues Special UN Ambassador for agriculture and global cooperativismValter Pitol CEO of Copacol“There has been an increase in resources and all activities need incentive for funding and investment. ” Valter Pitol “The Safra Plan comes to serve small and medium-sized rural producers. To put resources there at the end, in the hands of the farmer. ” Tereza Cristina “The pandemic showed that you can be without clothes, shoes, cars, but you cannot be without food. The Safra Plan comes for this. ” Roberto Rodrigues57 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPAgência Cerquilho Agência Indaiatuba Agência Cafelândia Agência TatuíAGO 2020 Arrancadão 10 years of awards Uma A winning team is built on strength, resilience and a lot of cooperation. And that was how our teams came together to meet the winners of Arrancadão 2020 in a live broadcast full of emotion in the special 10th anniversary edition for the teams that stood out: Cafelândia, Cerquilho, Indaiatuba, Salto * and Tatuí. *No photo. 58 ANNUAL REPORT SEPT 2020 Ocepar System promotes meeting of female leaders Protagonism and entrepreneurship marked the meeting Our president, Maura Carrara, alongside other female cooperative leaders from Paraná, told her story of entrepreneurship and her professional trajectory. The Ocepar System (Organization of Cooperatives of Paraná) held, in September, the Meeting of Female Cooperative Leaders, the traditional Female Cooperlíder, which due to the pandemic took place virtually, on TV Paraná Cooperativo, highlighted female protagonism. 59 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPSET 2020 A New Concept of Service: Formosa do Oeste With more than 1,000 m2 of its own area, Sicredi Nossa Terra implements the new agency concept, designed for the comfort and convenience of its members. It has environments aligned with a differentiated service and interactivity proposal. 60 ANNUAL REPORT SET 2020For those who are fans Sicredi Store This is the space for our fans, where they can purchase products with the Sicredi brand at cost or by paying in Social Capital. Welcome to Bem- Welcome is where we welcome our members, speeding up their service, answering their questions and, if necessary, directing them to one of our Business Managers.61 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPSET 2020 Open concept Innovative experienceRelationship space It is an innovative space that allows a closest service and at a location that is convenient for members. Espaço Café com Negócios With a bold look, the Espaço Café com Negócios aims to offer a welcoming environment for small meetings, whether friendly or business, accompanied by several coffee options. It is the ideal place for a good conversation and an excellent internet connection. 62 ANNUAL REPORTPrivate environment A more reserved area intended to be shared with associates and the community. A room suitable for the most different needs. Digital Space Digital space for interactivity, was designed and made available for our associates to access a training channel and information by touching the screen and browsing the different possibilities. All of this was designed to provide a new experience for members, in addition, we want to bring communities closer to the digital environment. 63 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPIntercooperation for the health of our associates To awaken in associates, employees and the community in general the importance of awareness and prevention, we promoted a campaign with 60 days of care and prevention tips for women's and male health man. Our employees used pins and scarves to remind them to take care of their own health. We facilitated the live “Hour of Prevention”, with oncologist Dr. Drauzio Varella. The latter was a joint action with other cooperatives of the Sicredi System – Aliança, Progresso, Vale do Piquiri, ABCD and Vanguarda. All these activities took place in celebration and recognition of the international “Pink October” and “Blue November” campaigns. OCT 2020Hour of Prevention 64 REPORT ANNUALOUT 2020Teachers' Day On Teacher's Day, we pay tribute to the partners of the A União Faz a Vida Program of our cooperative. In the scenario of distance and longing, students and our president sent a message and a gift to all teachers, this team that is always ready to transform good questions into learning and knowledge, contributing to the protagonism of children and adolescents. 65 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPNOV 2020Extraordinary General Assembly We held, semi-in-person through the Pertencer Program web platform, our Extraordinary General Assembly with the participation of our Advisors, Delegates and Executive Board. On the agenda, we deal with the approval of systemic corporate regulations, the reform and consolidation of our Bylaws and the approval of our cooperative's complementary Electoral Regulations. 66 ANNUAL REPORT67 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP68 ANNUAL REPORTNOV 2020Opening of the Lençóis Paulista agency With a focus on relationships, we arrived in the city of books with an innovative proposal. Lençóis Paulista received a branch that is different from other financial institutions with spaces that offer more human and relational service.69 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPNOV 2020 Opening of the Cesário Lange branch The Cesário Lange (SP) branch follows the new service proposal and relational space. Right at the entrance the The Welcome space has employees prepared to assist, anticipate and direct the service. All environments were designed without fixed tables for our members to occupy at their convenience. 70 ANNUAL REPORT71 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPTo qualify the participation of our new members from Laranjal Paulista (SP), in the management and development of the cooperative, we carried out the Crescer Program. At the meeting, guests were able to understand the structure of Sicredi and credit cooperatives, expanding the vision of the cooperative owner. NOV 2020Crescer Program in Laranjal Paulista 72 ANNUAL REPORTWith the purpose of cooperating towards a sustainable financial life, we launched our financial education program Cooperação in Ponta do Lápis during ENEF Week. We promote, in our cities where we operate, actions that serve young people, children and adults. In addition to workshops with our collaborators and members of the Youth and Women Committees sharing good practices and information capable of providing a more balanced financial life, aimed at improving people's relationship with money. We have the participation of characters from Turma da Mônica, in comic books and cartoons, created by Maurício de Souza Produções. Mônica and her group started to compose Sicredi's financial education materials and they were distributed free of charge on education networks. DEC 2020National Education Week Financial (ENEF)73 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPAs the first cooperative financial institution in the cities of Jesuítas and Nova Aurora (PR), Nossa Terra PR/SP invested in comfort, mobility and agility to transform service into relationships, providing municipalities with an environment of coexistence and convenience so that members experience a new way of relating to their institution. Agência Jesuítas DEC 2020Reopenings: Jesuítas and Nova Aurora 74 REPORT ANNUALAgência Nova Aurora75 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPStories of those who cooperateStories of those who cooperate More than a craft, an art A plow disc, curiosity, creativity and boldness. This was the formula that young Fábio Gudilunas da Silva, from Jesuítas (PR), found to develop the art of cutlery. At 27 years old, the micro-entrepreneur is gaining ground in the industry, producing knives, daggers, hatchets, among others, and has been dreaming of gaining more visibility and market share. Born into a family with an agricultural tradition, at the age of 17 he had experience in a metallurgical factory. Since then he has developed his taste for cutlery. Self-taught, he began researching ways to further improve his creations, which were taking on robust forms as he gained attention through social media. The young man says that every time he posts something, he receives new requests. With more space and practice, today 70% of its sales come from the internet. When asked why he chose cutlery, Fábio reveals his passion for the art of transforming a piece of steel into a unique object. For the future, the cutlery owner has many plans and reveals that if he depends on his creativity, he will have a lot of work ahead of him. Already counting on an assistant, he aims to modernize the workshop and create more and more meaningful and sharp pieces. 78 ANNUAL REPORTStories of those who cooperate Rural tourism reconnects people to nature Producing strawberries as an agricultural product for six years family member, Edina Favero, from Cafelândia (PR), has seen up close how important it has been to open her strawberry production to receive visitors. Picking fruit from the tree, sitting under a tree, having contact with nature are increasingly valued experiences. When she started her strawberry production, the family producer's objective was to generate her own income using a small space of land that was still unproductive. She traveled 2,000 kilometers looking for ideas of what it could be produced in a different way and it was there in Rio Grande do Sul that he found producers who brought a different production proposal: strawberries grown in rice husks. Edna says that the first half kilo she harvested aroused the curiosity of people who started going to her farm to see her production. This made her see another way of generating income, not just reselling, but offering the harvest experience, transforming her production and the small property in a rural tourism spot. It was during the pandemic that the producer, alongside her husband, Claudiomir Angelo Pereira, saw her sales increase and demand for visitors to the property increase. For Edina, the increase in movement at such a difficult time for several sectors was a big surprise, resulting in the consolidation of this dream. With the success of strawberries, Edina diversified its production with blackberries and raspberries, providing new products and sources of income. Now too sells frozen fruits and is creating its own artisanal jam factory. All of this, counting on the support that the cooperative offers to family production. 79 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPStories from those who cooperate Grape on the tree, an experience with nature One of the oldest fruits in civilization, the grape has characteristics that cradle our memories through the senses. In western Paraná, a region very strong in grain production, associate José Donizete Lorenzato is pioneer in the diversification of its cultures by planting vines as a second source of income. His inspiration came from Indaiatuba (SP), where he spent years learning how to cultivate grapevines. Lorenzato arrived in Palmitopolis, west of Paraná, at the end of the 60s. Ten years later he decided that he needed to do something more to improve his income and went to work with grape production in the interior of São Paulo, where he discovered his passion for growing vines . Entrepreneur, he returns to Paraná and starts its own production. From then on, she didn't stop, the few vines she brought grew and gave rise to thousands of Niagara trees. Between comings and goings to Indaiatuba, where he still seeks references to increasingly improve his production, the farmer is inspired and recharges his energy to always improve. During the harvest season, from December to January, it receives people who want to get to know the vines, visitors can taste the best bunches straight from the plant. It's not just buying grapes, it's experience of being in contact with nature, in the beauty of the vineyards and the taste of the fruit. Planting, harvesting, packaging and delivering, alongside his wife and son, the farmer still sees room for one more dream: wine production. Without wasting time and keeping an eye on the future, the family estimates that in two years visitors will also be able to enjoy the new attraction. It is passion and willpower producing riches and unique moments in people's lives. 80 ANNUAL REPORTStories of those cooperates Energy with the power of the Sun An unprecedented movement with photovoltaic energy was led by a visionary from the municipality of Nova Aurora in Paraná, who many people started to follow, and it wasn't just for the economy, it was also for the environment. José Geraldo Berta, better known as Zé Berta, started when, in 2015, as a teacher, he decided to build his residence suited to sustainability: an intelligent and completely economical house with water reuse, roof green, self-draining floor and solar energy. Enthusiastic with the result, he recommended it to some friends and realized how much people were willing to contribute to the environment in a profitable and economical way. Which is why he became convinced how important sustainability is for society as a whole. And it was then that Berta decided to invest in the sale and installation of solar panels. An entrepreneur, a year later she already had her own business and was looking to expand. In four years already totals more than 40 thousand panels installed and branches in five other cities in Paraná. For him, solar energy is not just about making money, it is also about the satisfaction of generating clean energy. It's like there's a wire connected to the sun. Energy with the strength of the sun. At the head of BioNova, Berta relates the rapid growth in the production of clean energy, people's growing awareness of sustainability, as well as an economy that can vary depending on the area of ​​activity from 80% to 99% of energy bill, and all this with a return on investment in up to five years. Being part of a cooperative financial institution made all the difference, and Zé Berta was one of the first members to promote solar energy financing in the region. He also envisages two major projects for the plants this year. “My goal is to grow in order to serve small to large projects. And we are moving towards that”, he concludes. 81 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPOurs NumbersManagement Balance How the cooperative managed resources in 2020 Management Income StatementLiabilities - Source of resources: Balance in members' accounts 808,205,999 Current account 160,320,700 Investments 464,007,926 Savings 183,877,373 Directed resources 213,768,102 For agribusiness 1 95,588. 680 For solar energy 18,179,423 Systemic Funding 113,343,271 Share capital 70,024,018 Own reserves 55,800,967 Income for the year 11,875,100 Total Liabilities 1,273,017,457 REVENUESIncome from cash and cash equivalents 8,529,283 Credit operations 76,741,969 Sale of products and services 25,006,330 Total revenues 110,277,582 Revenues (-) Expenses = Net Result 11,875,100 EXPENSESRemuneration for member investments 17,315 .553 Reserve for support credit operations 14,357,755 Fixed (water, electricity, rent, security guard, transportation...) 32,175,503 People and labor charges 32,847,692 Taxes (municipal, state and federal) 1,705,980 Total expenses 98,402,482 Assets - Application of resources: Credit operations 617,944,890 Loans and financing 319,741,788 Rural Credit 298,203,102 Costs 142,758,071 Investments 155,445,031 Other credit operations 33,277.9 75 Goods available for sale 16,694,624 Physical and technological structures 34,405,473 Participation in companies that are part of the System19,490,665 Cash and cash equivalents 551,203,831 Total Assets 1,273,017,457 Values ​​in reais. Numbers adjusted as per rounding rules Values ​​in reais 84 ANNUAL REPORTComparisons and Evolutions 2020 2019 2018 2017 1,273,017,457 918,872,155 777,615,816 695,598,656 Assets and Obligations Values ​​in reais 2020 2019 2018 201 7 833,647,686 554,897,291 462,992,873 395,235,846 Deposits Totals Values ​​in reais 2020 2019 2018 2017 137,700,084 125,640,791 110,997,550 93,923,732 Shareholders' equity Values ​​in reais 2020 2019 2018 2017 43,498 38,357 32,296 2 7,268 Members Total number of account holders and non-account holders 2020 2019 2018 2017 11,875,100 15,294,432 15,880,697 11,722,981 Net Result Values ​​in reais Source: Analyzer. Data as of December 31, 2020Copacol/BRDE Agreement Balance in portfolio in December 2020817 operations R$ 157,031,024.13 Source: BRDE85 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPSP1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11Tietê Cerquilho Boituva Porto F eliz Salto Laranjal Paulista Jumirim Cesário Lange Tatuí Capivari Elias Fausto12 13 14 15 16 Indaiatuba Palmitópolis Cafelândia Corbélia Jotaesse1 2 3 4 5 68 7 CITY S WITH AGENCIES SIC NETWORK AUTHORIZED TO RECEIVE AGENCY CIAS1315 16 1718 19 21121 814 2 345 23 9102425 26 271128 6 72220 Planning Guidelines Strategic Strategic Map 2023 Member centricity People engaged Development and expansion Innovability Governance Drivers Sustainability with a focus on expanding our positive economic, social and environmental impact. In line with the purpose of the Sicredi System, “Building a more prosperous society together”, we defined our strategic drivers. Nossa Terra PR/SPMetas 2021 - 2023 Presence in 100% of the Operation Area; 30 physical branches; 60,000 members; R$1.7 billions in Total Assets; R$150 million in Shareholders' Equity; 75% Net Promoter Score (NPS). Member satisfaction and loyalty index 2021 2022 2023 86 ANNUAL REPORT iatuba Lençóis Paulista Areiópolis São Manuel Pratânia Botucatu Anhembi Bofete Conchas21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28Porangaba Pereiras Quadr a Saltinho Rio das Pedr as Mombuc a Rafard Monte MorPR1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Formosa do Oeste Jesuits Iracema do Oeste Nova Aurora Palmitópolis Cafelândia Corbélia Jotaesse1 2 3 4 5 68 7 CID ADES WITH AGENCIES SIC REDI CID ADES AUTHORIZED TO RECEIVE AGENCIES1315 16 1718 19 21121 814 2 345 23 9102425 26 271128 6 72220Area of ​​activity of Regional Nossa Terra PR/SP87 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SPFull version of the Balance Sheet and Explanatory Notes at: sicredi.com.br/conheca-o-sicredi/relatorios sicredinossaterra 88 ANNUAL REPORTJAN 2020DEC 2020 SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP