Cooperativa Sicredi Nossa Terra PR/SP Luis Pasquali, 205 – Os Pioneiros 85.415-000 - Cafelândia/PR sicredi.com.br COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT NOSSA TERRA – SICREDI NOSSA TERRA PR/SP CNPJ no. 81.192.106/ 0001-36 CALL NOTICE CORE ASSEMBLIES The President of the Nossa Terra Savings and Investment Credit Cooperative - Sicredi Nossa Terra PR/SP, using the powers conferred on her by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons Messrs. members, which on 12/31/2020 totaled 43,498 (forty-three thousand, four hundred and ninety-eight), according to the dates and times listed below, to meet in core assemblies, which will be held in “digital mode”, through the application called “Sicredi Digital Assembly”*, accessible via the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital. The assemblies will be held on a single call with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members per nucleus. Given the scenario current situation caused by the pandemic and fulfilling its role in society, the Cooperative will hold core assemblies digitally, thus avoiding contacts and crowds, following the recommendations of the competent health and health surveillance bodies:  04/07/2021 at 7:30 pm , all branch centers: Nova Aurora – PR, Formosa do Oeste – PR, Jesuítas – PR, Iracema do Oeste – PR and Palmitópolis – PR.  04/08/2021 at 7:30 pm, all branch centers: Cerquilho – SP, Tietê – SP, Boituva – SP, Porto Feliz – SP, Salto – SP, Tatuí – SP, Indaiatuba – SP and Laranjal Paulista – SP.  04/12/2021 at 7:30 pm, all branch centers: Cafelândia Centro – PR, Cafelândia Os Pioneiros – PR, Jotaesse – PR and Corbélia – PR. The core Assembly will deliberate on the following: I. Election of Delegate, deputy and substitutes, for the purposes of representing the members of the Laranjal Paulista agency, at the General Assemblies of the Cooperative, according to art. 16 of the Bylaws and in accordance with the Pertencer Program Regulations. AGENDA 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2020, comprising: a) Management report; b) Balance sheet; c) Income statement; d) Opinion of the Supervisory Board and External Audit; Cooperativa Sicredi Nossa Terra PR/SP Luis Pasquali, 205 – Os Pioneiros 85.415-000 - Cafelândia/PR sicredi.com.br 2. Destinations: a) Result; b) FATES; 3. Election of components of the Fiscal Council and setting the value of attendance cards for its members; 4. Update of the Compliance Policy and Internal Audit Standard; 5. Other matters of interest to the membership of a non-deliberative nature: a) Science of the EGM held in November/2020. Cafelândia – PR, March 11, 2021 Maura Carrara President of the Board of Directors COMMENTS: - The rules of the core assembly are set out in the Regulation of Belonging. *Instructions for use, participation and voting in the digital assembly system: accessible through the main internet browsers (Google Chrome, Safari, Edge), on computers and notebooks or smartphones, with Android or IOS operating system. The system will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action via chat, in real time. To access, simply click on the link and fill out your identification, the opportunity at which your entry into the Assembly will be admitted.