CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Message from the President ............................................. .................................... 04 30 years Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP ..... .................................................... .......... 08 Area of ​​activity .................................... .................................................... ............ 09 PROMOTIONAL CAMPAIGNS Life Insurance Promotion .............................. ....................................... 12 Prize Savings Promotion .................................................... .................... 13 30 Years of History Together .......................... .................................................... ... 14 OPENINGS AND REOPENINGS New branches in São Paulo ........................................ ................................. 17 Reopenings in Paraná ............. .................................................... .............. 19 SOCIAL ACTIONS Cooperation Day .................................................... ............................................. 21 Background Social ................................................. .................................................... ..... 22 Women's Committee ....................................... .................................................... ......... 23 ASSEMBLY 2021 2021 assembly process ................................... .................................... 23 First AGM broadcast on networks social ............................................. 24 OUR NUMBERS Numbers 2021 of the System and Iguaçu .............................................. .... 25 Exponential growth .............................................. ..................................... 26 OTHER SHARES FROM 2021 Ponte Preta and Guarani Sponsorship ... .................................................... ............. 27 Recognitions and awards................................. .......................................... 29Sicredi Iguaçu Branch in Hortolândia/SP4 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT5 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP In 2021, we experienced the continuity of the pandemic and, once again, we observed the strength of Sicredi's purpose to overcome challenges with an eye always focused on people. This collaborative action, based on the principles of the founders of credit cooperatives, has marked the history of our cooperative, Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP, which, over the last 30 years, has worked for the growth of our more than 64 thousand members and for the economic and social development of communities. An important milestone of three decades of activity and positive impact that were celebrated by showing how this trajectory was written with collective participation. Therefore, in 2021, we celebrated our anniversary with the “30 Years of History Together” campaign, which distributed more than R$1 million in prizes and more than 17 thousand instant gifts to members in Paraná, São Paulo and Santa Catarina. An action that helps demonstrate our commitment to close relationships and promoting a virtuous cycle in the regions where we operate. Confident in the differentiators of credit cooperatives and Sicredi, we also work increasingly to bring the business model to more people. We expanded our cooperative's service network with new branches in the São Paulo municipalities of Hortolândia, Nova Odessa and Sumaré, totaling seven branches in the state and with a forecast of three more new service points in 2022. With our growth, we generate more jobs and income, increase the supply of credit and support the local economy. We make our social responsibility actions more comprehensive with initiatives that combine innovation, growth and sustainability. In this way, we ended 2021 with a result of R$58 million, a record for the cooperative. All these positive numbers achieved in 2021 and in the last 30 years of our trajectory reflect the dedication of our advisors, directors and employees, who believe in our purpose of “Building a More Prosperous Society Together”, and work to make this mission an increasingly present reality in our cooperative and in the communities. Lotario Luiz Dierings president of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP8Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP 30 YEARS: YOU ARE PART OF THIS HISTORY On December 18, 2021, Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP celebrated 30 years of history. The date was celebrated through actions throughout the year, the main one being a vehicle raffle and distribution of instant gifts through the winning scratch card. Furthermore, on the anniversary date, a video was released telling a little about the history of Sicredi Iguaçu and also the 23 farmers from São João and nearby municipalities, who came together and created the cooperative. The video features testimonials from founding partners and collaborators. To watch the film of three decades of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Just point your phone's camera at the QR Code below. On the next pages, you will find a summary of the main initiatives developed by different areas of the cooperative in 2021. And as transparency underpins our daily lives, we will present our numbers, which attest to the solidity and strength of Sicredi Iguaçu. Good reading! 9 • Bom Sucesso do Sul • Chopinzinho • Dois Vizinhos (2 agencies) • Enéas Marques • Francisco Beltrão (3 agencies) • Itapejara D’Oeste • Marmeleiro • Nova Esperança do Sudoeste • Nova Prata do Iguaçu • Renascença • Salto do Lontra • São João • São Jorge • Saudade do Iguaçu • Sulina • VerêParaná Santa Catarina • Campo Erê • São Lourenço do OesteSP PR OPERATION AREA 28 agencies 24 cities São Paulo • Campinas (2 agencies) • Hortolândia • Nova Odessa • Paulínia • Sumaré • ValinhosAnnual Report 2021 Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Coordination Communication and Marketing Advisory Responsible Journalist Renan Guex Haiduk (DRT 11457/PR) Support Cooperativism Development Advisory Business Advisory Administrative Management Text, layout and editing Henrique Turra Renan Guex Haiduk Revision Letycia Fossatti Testa Positive Graphic Printing Circulation 300 copies #EXPEDIENTE Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPAIO MEMBER SUPPORT We at Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP are a cooperative financial institution, where our members decide the direction of the business and, therefore, our main objective is to serve to your financial needs. Together, we can prosper even more. Therefore, we seek to develop solutions suited to the moment in the lives of our members, which positively impact their financial health and are capable of adding income to their personal projects, their company or their agribusiness. • Exchange • Cards • Digital Certification • Automatic Debit • Authorized Direct Debit • Current Account • Credit • Consortiums • Investments • Pensions • Payments and receipts • Savings • Insurance • Current Account • Business Cards • Payment and Receipt Solutions • Payroll • Billing • Check Custody • Bank Domicile • Credit • Financing • Credit for investments BNDES • Investments • Corporate Pension • Foreign Exchange • Certification Digital • Consortiums • Insurance • Exchange • Cards • Digital Certification • Current Account • Rural Credit • Credit investment BNDES • Consortiums • Financing • Investments • Payments and Receipts • Insurance • SavingsFor youFor your companyFor your agribusiness • Telephone services • Application • ATM • Internet Banking Channels10 As has become a tradition at Sicredi, in 2021 we continue to reward members who have always trusted in the institution. Among the campaigns, we highlight: Promotion 30 years of history together, Savings Prize and Life Insurance. Only in celebration of the cooperative's anniversary, more than R$1 million in prizes were distributed, including vehicles, smart TVs and more than 17 thousand instant gifts in the winning scratch cards, which provided a greater number of winners. MEET THE WINNERS OF OUR COOPERATIVE'S CAMPAIGNS IN 2021.PROMOTIONAL CAMPAIGNS11 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Sicredi Iguaçu employees assist in the draw for the cooperative's 30th anniversary promotion.12LIFE INSURANCE PROMOTION Sicredi has a long partnership with the insurance company Icatu, and through this, we offer several insurance options to our members. This partnership provides cash draws among members who have Life Insurance. In 2021, two lucky winners were awarded R$50,000 at Sicredi Iguaçu, an associate from Bom Sucesso do Sul/PR, Cleomar Brasil, and an associate from São Lourenço do Oeste/SC, Zenilda Fátima Menezes. Associate Cleomar Brasil, from Bom Sucesso do Sul, with the prize of R$50 thousand. Zenilda Menese, winner of the promotion, with representatives from Icatu, employees and management of Sicredi Iguaçu. AWARD-WINNING SAVINGS PROMOTION Despite data from the Central Bank showing us that Brazilians are withdrawing their amounts from savings, due to various reasons, we at Sicredi Iguaçu continue encouraging our members to maintain the habit of saving. To this end, Sicredi launched the Sicredi Prize Savings Promotion, which distributed R$2.5 million in prizes. Participation was very simple: for every R$100 net increase in the member's savings, a lucky number was generated and distributed - if the applications were in the scheduled mode (when there is a monthly debt), the chances of winning doubled. During the action, which continued until December 2021, weekly draws of R$5,000 were held, a special draw of R$500,000, in celebration of savings month - in October -, in addition to the grand final prize of R$1 million, delivered in the last month of the promotion. During the period that the campaign was active, Sicredi Iguaçu had six winners in the weekly R$5,000 draw, including members from Paraná and Santa Catarina. In total, we distributed more than R$30,000 in prizes to members in the cities of: Itapejara D'Oeste/PR, Renascença/PR, São João/PR, São Lourenço do Oeste/PR, Dois Vizinhos/PR and Enéas Marques/ PR. Last year, more than 128 million lucky numbers were distributed in total. This is one of the countless ways that Sicredi helps with the financial education of our members. Anna Casagrande, associate at the São João/PR agency, receiving the weekly promotion prize, with Cesar Benincá, agency manager, and Lotario Dierings, president of Sicredi Iguaçu. Sicredi Iguaçu employees with Marilei Wessling, from Enéas Marques/PR, winner of the R$5,000 draw.13 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPIn Renascença/PR, associate Vera Lucia Davoglio receives the award from the agency manager, Everton de Moura, and investment advisor, Tarcisio Fachinello. Maria da Luz Mochinski receives the prize of R$5,000 in Itapejara D’Oeste, presented by the agency manager, Evaldir Zanella, and the portfolio manager, Vitor de Mello. Simple and traditional, savings are the option with very low risk, a good choice for those who want to save an emergency fund. It is also practical, easy and brings autonomy to the member, being able to make the investment via application or Internet Banking.14 COOPERATIVE'S 30TH ANNIVERSARY To celebrate the three decades since its foundation, Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP held the biggest draw in its history, with the “30 Years of History Together” promotion. There were four months of promotion, with instant prizes at our agencies, through winning scratch cards, a draw for 33 motorbikes and 33 smart TVs, and a final draw for three cars. “There was great expectation for the draw of the three vehicles. Our The promotion started in August 2021, involved 27 agencies in our area of ​​operation and we received more than 700 thousand coupons”, says the president of Sicredi Iguaçu, Lotario Luiz Dierings. We distributed more than 17 thousand gifts among our branches, in which our members won a scratch card, according to the purchase of financial products and services listed in the regulations, and collected their prize instantly. Agencies received a motorcycle and a smart TV - larger agencies received two motorcycles 15 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP and two smart TVs - to be raffled off among members. The draw took place simultaneously on December 10th. “There are 30 years of history, achievements, evolution and maturity. Our cooperative is solid because our members trusted our work. Therefore, this promotion was a gift, a thank you, to those who entrust us with taking care of our assets and financial lives”, adds Dierings. A The promotion ended with the draw for a Ford Ka, a Fiat Strada and a Ford Ranger, held on December 17th - on the 18th Sicredi Iguaçu actually celebrated its 30th anniversary. The moment was broadcast live on the cooperative's social networks. A studio was set up in the cooperative's auditorium to broadcast the final draw live on social media. A large team of collaborators helped with the draw. Each coupon underwent an audit to validate the data. The delivery of vehicles was at the beginning of 2022, in Dois Vizinhos/PR, and was attended by award-winning members, agency managers and the president of the cooperative.16 OPENINGS AND REOPENINGS In 2021, Sicredi Iguaçu continued the expansion process in the state of São Paulo and revitalization of existing spaces in Paraná. We opened new environments in the cities of Sumaré, Hortolândia and Nova Odessa, all in the state of São Paulo. In Paraná, we reopened our agencies in the cities of Enéas Marques, Verê and Bom Sucesso do Sul,17 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP A consolidated cooperative is one that continues its expansion process to new places, bringing solutions and a healthier financial life to the communities where it operates. In 2021, we opened three new spaces in São Paulo, thus reaching all municipalities in our area of ​​operation in the state. Sumaré/SP branch, opened in September 2021, in the city center. Opening of new spaces in São Paulo18 With strategic points chosen in the cities of Hortolândia, Nova Odessa and Sumaré, Sicredi Iguaçu arrived in the cities to present a new way of taking care of money. We greatly value good relationships with our associates. We go to meet them to understand what their needs are and improve the service even further. We know that this makes a big difference when choosing a financial institution. Across the country, Sicredi It already has more than 5 million members and more than 2000 branches spread across all Brazilian states. Nova Odessa/SP branch, opened in September 2021. The three municipalities were chosen strategically, as they are part of the Campinas Metropolitan Region (RMC), which in addition to being the cooperative's area of ​​operation, is a region that contributes a portion significant share of national GDP. Credit cooperativism is a pillar to be explored and has great potential in RMC. A Sicredi Iguaçu doesn’t stop there. In 2022, the plans are for new branch openings in Campinas, thus being able to spread the mission and values ​​of credit cooperatives in our society and show that with it we can go further.19 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP The Hortolândia/SP agency opened its doors in June 2021, in an important region of the city. We restructured some branches in Paraná, with spacious and modern spaces, maintaining simple service, close to and human. That's why all our branches have structures with accessibility and sustainability, doing good for members and the communities where we operate, so they feel comfortable and can carry out all their financial procedures and, at the same time, feel at home. .Reopenings in Paraná Clever Piovesan, manager of the Verê agency, Lotario Dierings, president of Sicredi Iguaçu, Eleuterio Benin, executive director, Marcia Koch, director of business and Kleber Giacomini, regional manager at the inauguration of the Verê/PR.20 branch. The new Bom Sucesso do Sul/PR branch was opened in December 2021, in the city center. SOCIAL ACTIONS AND PROGRAMS We always value the personal development of our associates and the development of the communities in which we operate. To achieve this, we offer much more than just financial services and products. We always want to be close to and accompanying those who have always helped us to get to where we are today. Within Sicredi Iguaçu, we carry out various social actions and projects, so that our role of cooperating with society is always active. This year we had numerous actions, from the already consolidated C Day, to the launch of the Women's Committee, meetings of the Youth Committee, launch of the cooperative's Social Fund, among others.21 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP As it does annually, Sicredi supported Cooperate Day 2021, also known as C Day. In total, on a national scale, more than 106 thousand people were affected. As a result of the initiative, aligned with the Global Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), almost 750 tons of food were collected – an amount that directly benefited more than 106 thousand people in situations of food insecurity. Of this volume, 693 tons were received directly at collection points at Sicredi branches across the country, in addition to R$ 288 thousand that were collected through donation of values ​​- amount reversed in the purchase of the other 50 tons. In 2021, C-Day was celebrated on July 3, on International Cooperative Day, with the motto “Come Transform”. Sicredi Iguaçu mobilized all agencies in 50 actions including collecting food, hygiene products, warm clothes and blankets; tree planting; blood donation; among others. Around 12 tons of food, 4,700 pieces of clothing and 103 blankets were collected, in addition to participation of 67 employees in donating blood. The activities involved 350 volunteer employees across the cooperative's entire area of ​​operation. C-Day - Cooperation Day The Nova Esperança do Sudoeste/PR agency participated in C-Day 2021 by collecting food. In the image, agency employees with the amount raised. The food was destined for entities in the municipality.22 Approved by the Assembly, the Sicredi Iguaçu Social Fund was created. It is a program that allocates part of the cooperative's results to support projects of collective interest existing in the area of ​​activity. Public or private, non-profit entities, members of the cooperative and present in their area of ​​activity, can participate in the Social Fund. Within these requirements, projects related to education, culture, sport, health, environment, safety and social inclusion can be registered.Social Fund Sicredi was present at the eighth edition of the Week National Financial Education Forum, an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum, which took place between the 8th and 14th of November. At a local level, Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP also participated in ENEF Week with several initiatives in the municipalities in its area of ​​operation. In 2021, more than 120 volunteer employees participated in the movement and held approximately 100 workshops under the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis program for children, teenagers and adults. The actions had an impact more than 6 thousand people, generating a very positive impact on the lives of participants. ENEF Week Sicredi's financial education actions also take place in schools in the municipalities in our area of ​​operation.23 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Launch of the Women's Committee In November 2021, Sicredi Iguaçu established its first Women's Committee, made up of 32 members from agencies in Paraná and Santa Catarina, whose objective is to train women members of the Cooperative in various themes relevant to cooperativism, leadership, entrepreneurship, among others, and promote the participation and inclusion of this public in the Cooperative. Launch of the Women's Committee, at the cooperative's administrative headquarters, in São João/PR. Comics from Turma da Mônica Jovem In 2021, more than 27 thousand comic books from Turma da Mônica Jovem on financial education were delivered free of charge to students at State Schools in the Cooperative's area of ​​operation. ASSEMBLIES 2021 Our assemblies are a event awaited by many members. We always end up filling spaces with cooperative members who want to make a difference in the direction of Sicredi Iguaçu. However, in 2021, we had to hold the assemblies in a different way, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We held in-person events, respecting all protocols imposed by the World Health Organization, receiving a limited number of members in our agencies, so that the necessary quorum for the assembly could be established.24 The pandemic forced us to hold assemblies with a reduced number of participants, but this does not mean that our members were less informed. We created a series of short videos to keep members up to date with the issues discussed at the assemblies. We discussed changes to the cooperative's regulations, such as the Bylaws, Electoral Code, among others. We also present the strategic roles of the Administrative and Fiscal Councils in the day-to-day cooperative and, finally, we finish the series by showing Sicredi Iguaçu's numbers in 2021. Special videosAGO For the Ordinary General Assembly, a studio was set up in the cooperative's auditorium, in São João/PR, and from there, all information was transmitted to the live for the cooperative's Facebook and YouTube. It was the first time that a Sicredi Iguaçu assembly was held live on social media. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) took place in a hybrid format, with some core coordinators participating in person and, simultaneously, it was broadcast live to our members through social media. We present all the issues that are discussed in the core assemblies to more than 13 thousand members who watched us on the platforms. It is a way of bringing together traditional and technological so that together we can provide our members with the greatest possible transparency.25 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP OUR NUMBERS 2021 Sicredi million members+ 5.6 + 36 thousand employees 108 affiliated credit cooperatives 26 states and the Federal District+ 2 thousand branches R$ 25.2 billion in net worth R$ 197 billion in assets Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP members+ 64 thousand +400 employees 3 states Paraná, Santa Catarina and São Paulo28 branches R$276 million in equity R$1.8 billion in assets* * DATA FROM DECEMBER/2126EXPONENTIAL GROWTH R$1.7 billion in total resources increase compared to the previous year31% 64 thousand associates increase compared to the previous year7.8% R$16 million in distribution of increase compared to the previous year57.5% R$58 million in result of increase compared to the previous year58% R$1.4 billion in credit portfolio increase compared to the previous year36% R$276 million in equity increase compared to the previous year19% * DATA FROM DECEMBER/21*2727 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP OTHER SHARES IN 2021 We started 2021 focused on our expansion in the state of São Paulo and the revitalization of our existing spaces in Paraná and Santa Catarina. We continued to offer differentiated lines of credit so that our members could get through the pandemic with less difficulty and with a partner by their side. From exclusive lines for women entrepreneurs, to credit lines for micro and small businesses. From big to small. Plurality in the purest way which is cooperativism. At a national level, Sicredi also continued to launch technological innovations that made life easier for its members. Higher PIX limits, greater transaction security, tips on how to avoid fraud. All this following the local development of cooperatives. The social area of ​​Sicredi Iguaçu also had great emphasis. From maintaining the cooperative's Youth Committee, with hybrid meetings, to the creation of the unprecedented Women's Committee, giving full support and prominence that women deserve in our society. We also focus on embracing sport as a way of spreading protagonism in society. We sponsor regional clubs, such as Galo Futsal, from Dois Vizinhos/PR, to traditional football clubs - Ponte Preta and Guarani. Sicredi partners with Ponte Preta and Guarani Our objective is to spread cooperativism and its advantages in markets that have not yet been explored by our brand. Through sport, we find a great opportunity to achieve this, as sport and cooperation go hand in hand. Combining support for sport with our expansion in the metropolitan region of Campinas, during 2021 we sponsored the two most traditional teams in the city, Ponte Preta and Guarani. The agreement was signed at the club headquarters, with the presence of our management body and the managers of the Campinas agencies. Sicredi has been consolidating its presence in the sport over the years. In 2021 we were the official sponsors of the Campeonato Paulista, which bore our name throughout the competition. Furthermore, at a national level, since 2015 we have sponsored the Brazilian Football Cup, showing that, through sport and cooperation, we can bring changes to the communities where we operate and offer a healthier financial life to all those who believe in Sicredi . In 2021, the cooperative also continued its sponsorship of Vera Cruz Basquete Campinas, with the support and support to two-time national champion women's basketball.28 Sicredi Iguaçu's operations director, Fabio Dalponte and business director, Marcia Koch, with the then president of Guarani Futebol Clube, Ricardo Moisés, during the signing of the contract. Management and employees of Sicredi Iguaçu at Moisés Lucarelli Stadium, in Ponte Preta. The cooperative's brand was printed on the front bar of the shirt.2929 Best and Biggest Banco Sicredi ranked 15th among the Largest Banks that are part of the Best & Biggest Exam guide. Época 360 In the Época Negócios 360º guide, a guide prepared in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral, Sicredi came in 8th place in the sectoral ranking of Banks, a position influenced by its emphasis on 2nd place in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance. Valor 1000 Sicredi ranked 9th in the ranking of the 100 Biggest Yearbook banks, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year. Furthermore, the institution stood out in 11 other categories of the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. Among the highlights, it ranked 4th among the 20 most profitable on assets and 7th in Credit Operations and Total Deposits. Finance Mais We achieved a prominent position in the Finance Mais ranking, published by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo. We participate in the yearbook through the Bank Cooperativo Sicredi and we were ranked 6th in the “Banks - Financing” category. Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPAWARDS AND RECOGNITION Value Large Groups In the 2021 edition, published in December, Sicredi rose one position compared to 2020 and ranked 68th overall, considering all listed companies. Among the 20 largest companies in the finance sector, the institution ranked 12th. Other milestones were 9th place among the 20 biggest in Profit Net and also among the top 20 in Net Worth; and 12th position in Equity Profitability. Recognition from BNDES Sicredi's good performance in the credit lines made available by BNDES, to minimize Prisma Fiscal Prisma Fiscal is a system for collecting market expectations, created and managed by the Economic Policy Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance, to monitor developments of the main Brazilian fiscal variables from the perspective of important private sector analysts. Last year, we won first place in the projection of Total Government Expenditure in the long term and Primary Result of the Central Government in the short term. We were also placed second in Central Government Nominal Result (long term), and third in General Government Gross Debt in the long term. Broadcast Projeções Award Sicredi was highlighted in the Broadcast Projeções Award. The institution ranked 6th in the General Top and 7th in the Basic Top. In its 15th edition, the award is based on the AE Projeções ranking and aims to reward institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators come closest to reality. Agtech Garage Award Sicredi was the winner of the AgTech Garage Awards, an award given by one of the largest innovation hubs in Latin America for agribusiness, AgTech Garage. The award-winning case involves the development of a tool for rural management, built in partnership with the startup Elysios. The choice was made through popular vote during the AgTech Garage. The impact of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic was recognized by the “Project Incentives for Financial Agents”, from the development bank. The state body listed financial institutions with the best performance in granting emergency measures between March and December, and Sicredi was recognized in two categories - achieving first place in both: BNDES Pequenas Empresas - Bancos de Development/Cooperatives and Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE) - Development Banks/Cooperatives. Top 100 Open Corps In 2021 we appeared for the 3rd time in this ranking that refers to the 100 most open companies for innovation in Brazil. Focus Sicredi has been highlighted for 4 years in this ranking released by the Central Bank and, for the second year in a row, we are the institution that had the greatest presence in the lists of the five institutions that came closest to getting it right of the indicators, being the only one to appear in five ranking categories. Sicredi appears in fourth place in the Annual Short-Term category for the Exchange Rate (Grade 9.6), IPCA (score 9.2) and IGP-M (score 8.9) indicators. In the Selic Rate, Sicredi occupies the fifth position in the Short Term Annual (score 9.5) and Medium Term Annual (score 8.9) categories.30 GPTW Certification In August 2021, Sicredi became a GPTW certified company , being able to participate, from 2022, from the GPTW ranking, which lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. With an approval rate of 88%, being certified is already an important achievement for a company of Sicredi's size and scope. FGV Fund Guide Award Sicredi, through its Asset, won first place in the Money Market category for Asset Specialists in the 2021 edition of the FGV Fund Guide, organized by the Center for Financial Studies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas. The choice of the winners was done through a committee made up of professors and researchers with academic and applied experience in investments, who analyzed the investment funds of financial institutions. Abrasca Award Sicredi's Sustainability Report was awarded at the 23rd Award from the Brazilian Association of Public Companies (Abrasca), which highlights the improvement of reporting with greater clarity, transparency, quality of information and character innovative and sustainable. We won second place in the “Closed Companies” category in a 100% virtual ceremony. First place in the category was the BNDES Annual Report. Banking Transformation Award 2021 - Banking Report The award, which is held to encourage and value initiatives by financial institutions, contributing to the improvement of the sector, had as its winning case the “Implementation of WhatsApp Enterprise + Theo”, by Sicredi, which involves the use of intelligence artificial to provide more agility and efficiency to service, through the instant messaging app. The initiative took place with another 230 cases, being the best evaluated by a committee made up of experts in innovation and the banking sector. This recognition rewards the entire journey of digital transformation that the institution has undertaken over the last few years, which has generated an organizational environment more prone to innovation. Value Guide for Investment Funds With Strategies that value long-term assets, profitability well above their benchmarks and active management, funds with different risk and volatility categories, Sicredi has managed to remain among the top 20% since 2019, as assessed by the Guia Valor de Fundos de Investimento do Economic value. In the Active Fixed Income category, we stand out with our Fundo Sicredi Institucional FI REF IRF-M, from our own resource manager, Sicredi Asset. In the Stock Index category, our highlight is with the Schroders Sicredi Ibovespa Fund FIA.3131 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP32 Sicredi was highlighted in the World Council Young Union People (WYCUP), a program that recognizes young leaders for significant contributions to their communities and credit unions that have the potential to make a global impact. The event was part of another edition of the Woccu ​​(World Council of Credit Cooperatives) World Conference. The cooperative financial institution There were five winners among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects and entries from 13 different countries. The Sicredi associates included were Kelly Lima, from the Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP cooperative, for her support in the construction of the Women's Guide, addressing the rights of women suffering from cancer and victims of domestic violence; Rafael Lopes, from Sicredi Paranapanema PR/SP, with the “Let’s Help Those Who Need It Most” campaign, encouraging donations in support for victims of a strong windstorm in their region; Guilherme de Melo, also from Sicredi Paranapanema, with his participation in a project that supported the distribution of soap to needy families in his community. The award-winning employees include Carolina Mussolini, Communications advisor at the Sicredi Rio Paraná PR/SP cooperative, with massive publicity about credit cooperatives, differences and benefits on their social networks, boosting the population's knowledge about the business model; and Ana Goffredo, Business advisor at Sicredi União PR/SP, with the Energia da União project, which promotes the local economy and the production of clean energy through the financing of photovoltaic panels with the cooperative's partners, strengthening the virtuous cycle of cooperation in the community. In recognition of their projects, everyone received scholarships and a trip, with all expenses paid, to Glasgow, Scotland, to participate in the Conference World Credit Unions in 2022. WYCUP - World Council Young Credit Union People 33 financial statements Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPfinancial statementsfinancial statementsService network Regional Superintendence Rua São Francisco, 538, Centro São João - PR Agência Chopinzinho Rua Presidente Dutra, 4114, Centro Chopinzinho - PR Agência São Jorge D'Oeste Avenida Iguaçu, 304, Centro São Jorge D'Oeste - PR São João Agency Avenida XV de Novembro, 374, Centro São João - PR Agência Saudade do Iguaçu Avenida Iguaçu, 2054, Centro Saudade do Iguaçu - PR Agência Sulina Rua Tapajos, 1180, Centro Sulina - PR Agência Bom Sucesso do Sul Avenida Padre Ivo Zolet. 410, Centro Bom Sucesso do Sul - PRAgência Dois Vizinhos Avenida João Dalpasqualle, 266, Centro Dois Vizinhos - PR Agência Nova Prata do Iguaçu Avenida Iguaçu, 708, Centro Nova Prata do Iguaçu - PR Agência Salto do Lontra Avenida Bertino Warmling, 955, Centro Salto do Lontra - PR Agency Verê Avenida Luiz Francisco Paggi, 595, Centro Verê - PR Agência Renascença Avenida Castelo Branco, 829, Centro Renascença - PR Agência Francisco Beltrão Avenida Antonio Paiva Cantelmo, 850, Centro Francisco Beltrão - PR Agência Itapejara D'Oeste Avenida Manoel Ribas, 1220, Centro Itapejara D'Oeste - PR36 37 Annual Report 2021 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP audit reportAgência Marmeleiro Avenida Dambros e Piva, 10, Centro Marmeleiro - PR Agência Enéas Marques Avenida Joaquim Bonetti, 723, Centro Enéas Marques - PR Agência São Lourenço do Oeste Rua Ernesto Beuter, 452, Centro São Lourenço do Oeste - SC Agência Nova Esperança do Sudoeste Avenida Iguaçu, 786, Centro Nova Esperança do Sudoeste - PR Agência Campo Erê Rua Maranhão, 787, Centro Campo Erê - SC Agência Cidade Norte Avenida Atilio Fontana, 2940, Pinheirinho Francisco Beltrão - PRAgência Sul Dois Vizinhos Avenida Presidente Kennedy, 627, Centro Sul Dois Vizinhos - PR Agência Valinhos Avenida dos Imigrantes, 214, Centro Valinhos - SP Agência Paulínia Avenida José Paulino, 1736, Centro Paulínia - SP Agência Campinas Avenida Barão de Itapura, 729, Botafogo Campinas - SP Agência Alto da Júlio Avenida Júlio Assis Cavalheiro, 1362, Centro Francisco Beltrão - PR Agência Norte Sul Avenida José de Souza Campos, 2039, Cambuí Campinas - SP Agência Nova Odessa Avenida João Pessoa, 226, Centro Nova Odessa - SP Agência Hortolândia Rua Benedito Manduca de Sousa, 105, Bairro Jardim das Paineiras Hortolândia - SPAgência Sumaré Rua Dom Barreto, 1360, Centro Sumaré - SP