Graphic Project - Sicredi 2020 4 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT At the beginning of 2020 we were faced with a great challenge: the Covid-19 pandemic. Changes in strategic planning had to take into account the obstacles faced across the world. Adversities reinforced the importance of Sicredi’s purpose and cooperativism. And the difference in our business model became even more evident, always connected to the concepts of mutual help and collaboration. With resilience, We overcame every difficulty and achieved an impressive result: R$36 million. We surpassed the R$1 billion mark in our credit portfolio and exceeded R$1.3 billion in total managed resources - an increase of 33.5%. The benefits reached directly to the associates, the business owners. Adding up the last four years, we achieved more than R$134 million in results. Part of this amount, R$47 million, was distributed to the membership, in proportion to the volume of operations and as interest on the paid-in share capital. These positive results demonstrate how much the “Sicredi Way of Being” made a difference in 2020. The close relationship with associates, employee engagement and action based on the ideals of the founders of cooperativism resulted in consolidated actions aimed at the development of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP and cities in the area of ​​operation. We continue working for a more prosperous society, concentrating our efforts on growing the cooperativism and promoting the virtuous cycle in the regions where we operate. We focused our efforts on expanding our service network, with the opening of the second branch in Campinas, in the interior of São Paulo, and the reopenings in Marmeleiro, Renascença and Enéas Marques, in Paraná.55Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Lotario Dierings, during a meeting held in the state of São Paulo in 2020. For 2021, we plan new investments in the opening of branches in Nova Odessa and Hortolândia, in São Paulo. An expansion movement that will celebrate 30 years of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP and will consolidate our commemorative campaign. The positive numbers for 2020 and the good prospects for 2021 are possible thanks to the trust of our associates, the commitment and dedication of our board, management and each of our 380 employees. Therefore, I thank the efforts of everyone who continues to work for the development of our society. In 2021, we will continue guided for our purpose of growing together. Lotario Luiz Dierings president of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP6 HISTORY Sicredi Iguaçu administrative headquarters, in São João/PRHISTORYSicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP 29 YEARS GROWING TOGETHER On December 18, 1991, motivated by the need to have access to rural credit more easily, 23 farmers from São João and nearby municipalities came together and created Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP. After 29 years, the credit union reaches significant marks: 59 thousand associates, 380 employees, more than R$1 billion in credit portfolio, more than R$1.3 billion in managed resources, R$227 million in equity and in 2020 reached R$36 million in results. The member's trust has provided the cooperative with exponential growth throughout its history. Sicredi Iguaçu is consolidated in its area of ​​activity, generating jobs and sowing results that make a difference in the community. Today, Sicredi Iguaçu is present in 21 municipalities, with 25 agencies distributed between Paraná, Santa Catarina and São Paulo. Currently, the expansion process is concentrated in the metropolitan region of Campinas, with more branches expected to open in 2021. Despite all the adversities faced by the world in 2020, it was a year of learning, caution and maturity. With the support of associates, collaborators, directors and advisors, Sicredi Iguaçu will continue to be engaged in building a more prosperous.7Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP8 • Bom Sucesso do Sul • Chopinzinho • Dois Vizinhos • Enéas Marques • Francisco Beltrão • Itapejara D'Oeste • Marmeleiro • Nova Esperança do SudoesteParaná Santa Catarina • Campo Erê • São Lourenço do OesteSP PR PERFORMANCE SCARE 25 agencies 21 cities São Paulo • Campinas • Paulínia • Valinhos • Nova Prata do Iguaçu • Renascença • Salto do Lontra • São João • São Jorge • Saudade do Iguaçu • Sulina • VerêAnnual Report 2020 Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Coordination Communication and Marketing Consultancy Responsible Journalist Renan Guex Haiduk (DRT 11457/PR) Support Cooperativism Development ConsultancyBusiness ConsultancyAdministrative Management Text, layout and editing Henrique TurraRenan Guex Haiduk Revision Letycia Fossatti Testa Positive Graphic Printing Circulation 500 copies #EXPEDIENTESUPPORT TO THE MEMBER We at Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP are a cooperative financial institution, where our Associates are the ones who decide the direction of the business and, therefore, our main objective is to meet your financial needs. Together, we can prosper even more. Therefore, we seek to develop solutions suited to the moment in the lives of our members, which positively impact their financial health and are capable of adding income to their personal projects, their company or their agribusiness. • Exchange • Cards • Digital Certification • Automatic Debit • Debit Authorized Direct • Current Account • Credit • Consortiums • Investments • Pensions • Payments and receipts • Savings • Insurance • Current Account • Business Cards • Payment and Receipt Solutions • Payroll • Billing • Check Custody • Banking Domicile • Credit • Financing • Credit for investments BNDES • Investments • Corporate Pensions • Foreign Exchange • Digital Certification • Consortia • Insurance • Foreign Exchange • Cards • Digital Certification • Current Account • Rural Credit • Investment Credit BNDES • Consortiums • Financing • Investments • Payments and Receipts • Insurance • SavingsFor youFor your companyFor your agribusiness • Telephone services • Application • ATM • Internet Banking Channels9Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPCAMPANHAS associate Marcelo Raitz, winner of the R$50,000 prize, with the president of Sicredi Iguaçu, Lotario DieringsIn 2020 we continued to reward those who always believed and bet on us. Whether with Life Insurance awards or our Savings Campaign, we always look for a way to repay the trust that our members place in us. The act of giving back to our associates through the distribution of results and prizes shows that the financial strength - which has always been the hallmark of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP - was maintained in 2020. MEET THE WINNERS OF OUR CAMPAIGNS COOPERATIVE IN 2020. CAMPAIGNSPROMOTIONAL CAMPAIGNS LIFE INSURANCE PROMOTION Through years of partnership with Icatu Seguros, Sicredi always seeks solutions that meet the needs of financial planning and family protection, but, above all, that bring benefits and differences to members. For Sicredi Iguaçu, insurance is more than a product, it is a condition for our associates to sleep more peacefully, knowing that their lives and assets are protected. Names of June we delivered R$50,000 to our associate Marcelo Raitz, from São Jorge d’Oeste, as a weekly Life Insurance premium.11 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP12PROMOTION TO SAVE AND EARN NON-STOP Almost half of Brazilians (49%) had saving money as their main financial goal in 2020, according to a survey carried out by SPC Brasil. To encourage the habit of saving, Sicredi promoted the Save and Win Without Stopping Promotion, which distributed R$2.5 million in prizes. Participation was very simple: for every R$100 net increase in the member's savings, a lucky number was generated and distributed to the member - if the investments were in the programmed modality (when there is a monthly debit to the member's savings account), the chances of winning doubled. During the action, which continued until December 2020, weekly draws of R$5,000 were held, a special draw of R$500,000, in celebration of savings month, in October, in addition to the grand prize final amount of R$1 million, delivered in the last month of the promotion. At Sicredi Iguaçu we were awarded the campaign, thus being able to contribute even more to the lives of our associates. The satisfaction of our partners is combined with the purposes of the cooperative financial institution, which also works to strengthen the concepts of financial education. Between March and November, Sicredi had an increase in savings of R$2.4 billion, in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro alone, showing the confidence of our associates when it comes to investment and security. Marcelo Victor Ferreira, associate at the Sul Dois Vizinhos/PR agency, receiving the weekly promotion prize, with Endrigo Galvagni, agency manager Tatiana Cristina Fontana, associate at the Centro Francisco Beltrão/PR agency, was also one of those awarded with R$5,000 . In the photo: Marcio Roberto Machado, manager of agency13 In Dois Vizinhos/PR, the hamburger restaurant Soberano’s Burger, associated with the Dois agency Vizinhos Centro, also won our weekly award To complete the trio of winners in the city of Dois Vizinhos, associate Valdecir Trentin, from the Centro agency, receiving the award from manager Marcio Sganzerla In our Chopinzinho/PR agency, we awarded associate Sandra Kirchoff , with R$ 5 thousand, winner of the weekly draw Nova Esperança do Sudoeste/PR member, Nair Pagno, also had the great luck of being awarded the weekly prize of R$ 5 thousand. In total, we awarded six members of the cooperative, being: three in Dois Vizinhos, Francisco Beltrão, Chopinzinho and Nova Esperança do Sudoeste, all in the state of Paraná, totaling R$30 thousand in prizes. Sicredi develops actions aimed at financial education. Knowledge that helps ensure a more prosperous society, both economically and socially. The “Save and Win Without Stopping” campaign is an additional incentive for Sicredi members’ financial planning. In 2020, the action generated 104 million of lucky numbers distributed among savers, a record since the promotion began four years ago. At Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP, five years ago there was not such a large increase in savings. We exceeded R$260 million in portfolio, growth of 31.7% compared to the previous year. Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP14 NEW SPACES Agência de Renaissance/PRNEW SPACESOPENINGS AND REOPENINGS During 2020, Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP opened new spaces in Campinas, in the state of São Paulo, Marmeleiro, Renascença and Enéas Marques, all in the state of Paraná. In Campinas we opened our second branch, on Avenida Norte-Sul. In the cities of Paraná, we reopened our branches with a modern environment, but with the same close service as always. In Sulina/PR, we revitalized and expanded the service environment of our agency. The new spaces continue the process of expanding and renewing our structures, in accordance with the new Sicredi brand. AGENCIES DESIGNED WITH A MODERN DESIGN, WHICH WILL OFFER MEMBERS A MORE PERSONALIZED AND CLOSE SERVICE.15 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPOur members in Campinas/SP gained a new branch in February 2020. Located on Avenida Norte-Sul, the service unit follows the expansion plan of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP, which always seeks strategic commercial points. Today, 70% of the population of Campinas passes through least once a day along Norte-Sul, which is one of the busiest avenues in the city. The Norte-Sul agency is our second agency in the city - the first is located on Avenida Barão de Itapura. With 270 m², the new branch was designed to offer a unique experience for members, following the principles of Sicredi, which is committed both to the financial lives of its members and to the assistance and development of the regions where it operates. “Campinas today has more than one million people and an economic composition focused on commerce, services and industry. Therefore, we believe that the expansion of the cooperative will offer this population a more personalized service, with fairer interest and rates than what currently exists in the region.”, explains Carlos Liberato, manager of one of our branches in Campinas.Opening of the branch North-South, in Campinas/SP16Marco Antonio Sanches Tejeda, manager of the North-South Agency, during the inauguration ceremonyThe region The metropolitan area of ​​Campinas contributes a significant portion of the country's financial GDP, which is why the cooperative chose the city in this first moment of expansion to solidify the brand. Our executive director, Eleuterio Benin, says that there are three pillars that make the cooperative what it is today and that are our differentiators. “We work in a very democratic way. All our associates, regardless of the capital invested, have the right to participate in meetings and vote on strategies for the future of the cooperative. Furthermore, another very important difference is that everyone has a stake in the results, depending on their financial transactions. And, above all, we value a good relationship with our associates. We go to meet him to understand what his needs are and improve our service even further”, says Eleuterio. The inauguration ceremony was also marked by the signing of the sponsorship contract with the team Vera Cruz Basquete women's team. The partnership, which lasted all year, was extended to the next season. Lotario Luiz Dierings, president of Sicredi Iguaçu, during his speech at the inauguration Moment of signing the sponsorship contract for the Vera Cruz Basquete women's team17 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPFacade of the new Enéas Marques agency, in Paraná18 Reopening ceremony of the Enéas Marques agency, in Paraná Appreciate the close service, simple, human and active is our mission and, daily, we look for solutions so that it only improves. To make our associates feel comfortable, at home and in a cozy and modern environment, in 2020, we revitalized the environments of four branches (Marmeleiro, Sulina, Renascença and Enéas Marques), so that they follow the purpose of the Sicredi brand. The architecture seeks to meet all the needs that our associates may have, fulfilling all the requirements of accessibility and sustainability. Making them feel comfortable dedicating themselves to their financial lives is one of our purposes. The Coronavirus pandemic that devastated 2020 forced us to reinvent ourselves in several situations, including the traditional inauguration ceremonies of new spaces. The celebrations were a way of getting closer to our associates and the community. This year, all inaugurations and reopenings followed the municipalities' health protocols, in addition to the measures recommended by the World Health Organization, to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus. Therefore, in the events, which in the past brought together hundreds of people, only employees from the agencies, executive board and president participated, without the presence of the public. We are always attentive to the needs of our members and we seek to be increasingly closer, bringing the benefits of a credit cooperative to the cities where we are present.Agência de Sulina/PR19 Agência de Renascença/PR Agência de Marmeleiro/PR The new facilities have a modern design and provide more comfort and convenience to members, as well as promoting the values ​​of cooperativism.Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SOCIAL SPACE20Our concern for our associates and the community in which we operate goes far beyond financial life. We always want to be close to the personal growth of those who have always helped us get to where we are today. Within Sicredi Iguaçu, we carry out various social actions and projects, so that our role of cooperating with society is always active. From clothing and food donations, to reducing carbon dioxide emissions, we are always valuing the well-being, development and sustainability of the places that welcomed us. FIND OUT ABOUT OUR COOPERATIVE'S SOCIAL ACTIONS IN 2020. SOCIAL ACTIONS AND PROGRAMS SOCIAL ACTIONS21 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP22 The Union Program Faz A Vida (PUFV) is Sicredi's main education program and aims to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. PUFV is present in more than 360 Brazilian municipalities and has already contributed to the training of more than 25 thousand educators and more than 280 thousand children and adolescents across the country. The program has its own methodology, based on the school curriculum, developed by through cooperative educational projects. Students are protagonists of learning process and have the support of educators, parents and the community. We believe that this way we help build a future with fairer, more supportive and entrepreneurial citizens, who respect diversity and dialogue to make decisions. In 2020, Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP launched the program in Francisco Beltrão, Paraná. In the cooperative’s area of ​​operation, there is the program in the cities of São João, Saudade do Iguaçu, Sulina, Bom Sucesso do Sul, Chopinzinho, São Jorge d’Oeste, Dois Neighbors, Nova Prata do Iguaçu and, lastly launched, Francisco Beltrão, involving more than 5 thousand students and around 500 teachers, who together change the world through cooperation. Even though it was an atypical year, we carried out some actions, such as donating 50 basic food baskets, in each municipality, to the needy families of students who are part of the program. We also carry out online training and actions with teachers (via WhatsApp, video conferencing platforms and others), and dynamic (also online) with students participating in the project.Program A Uniao Faz A Vida Launch of PUFV in Francisco Beltrão/PR. In the photo: Eleuterio Benin, executive director, Antonio Pedron, deputy mayor of the municipality and Lotario Luiz Dierings, president of the cooperative The administrative-financial manager of the Saudade do Iguaçu/PR agency, Fabio Hartmann, accompanying the delivery of basic food baskets to families needy people in the municipalityRenascença agency employees in action on Day C - Day of Cooperar23 In yet another year, Sicredi supports Cooperar Day, also known as C Day. In total, nationwide, 1,008 social actions were carried out, benefiting 4.3 million people in communities in 610 cities. The initiatives are aligned with the “17 Sustainable Development Goals” proposed by the United Nations (UN) and have the support of the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB). The aim of the movement is to transform reality communities through the provision of services, such as actions focused on social responsibility in the areas of health, education, leisure and the environment. Sicredi Iguaçu also carried out actions at local and regional level. During the months of June and July, in all our branches and at our Administrative Headquarters, we carried out the Solidarity Cooperation action, where we collected more than 17 tons of food and cleaning and hygiene products, whose donations impacted more than 5 thousand people in our area of performance. Additionally, some employees at our agencies donated blood. The Nova Prata do Iguaçu/PR agency organized and implemented tree planting in the municipality. In total, we involved more than 300 volunteer employees who supported this social movement in our cooperative, in addition to the entire community in the cities in which we are located, who contributed with donations. Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Day C - Cooperation DayPink October Being able to help with the well-being and health of those who have always cooperated with us is a pleasure. During the month of October, Sicredi Iguaçu made a donation of more than R$7,000 to the NGO Mão Amiga, from Francisco Beltrão, in Paraná, which is one of the main entities in the area of ​​aid, prevention and care for patients who struggle. against breast cancer. The NGO gave us t-shirts relating to Pink October, which we sent to all our agencies. Our employees used the t-shirts during the month of October, reiterating Sicredi Iguaçu's support for the cause.24 Graphic Project - Sicredi 2020 The Cooperation program at Ponta do Lápis is our national and permanent financial education program, built collaboratively, together with the central, cooperatives and the Sicredi Foundation. We believe that through financial education, we can transform our relationship with money and gain greater independence and freedom in our lives. Sicredi Iguaçu held around 40 financial education workshops for children, young people and adults, distributed among all our agencies, in person (while possible) and online. We had a direct impact on more than 500 people who participated in the workshops, with the participation of more than 70 employees, who were willing to carry out this work voluntarily.Cooperation at Ponta Do Lápis Zero Greenhouse Gas Emission (GHG) Certificate Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP received the Zero Emission certificate by Ecofinance Negócios. To receive this certification, our cooperative neutralized 196 tons of carbon dioxide through the conservation of 2.32 hectares of the Native Mixed Ombrophilous Forest, located in a Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN), located in Bocaiúva do Sul/PR. Employees of the Francisco Beltrão Centro agency receiving t-shirts from the NGO Mão AmigaGente que Ask Grow. The União Faz a Vida Program is the main education initiative from Sicredi. Its objective is to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. How is this done? With projects that stimulate the curiosity and protagonism of children and adolescents. Find out more at: auniaofazavida.com.brAnd it all starts with a good transformative question.ASSEMBLIES 2020 Sicredi constantly invests in actions that allow its members to participate in the institution's daily life. One of them is the assemblies, meetings held by cooperatives, in which members - who, unlike traditional financial institutions, own the business - can vote and decide the direction of the respective credit cooperative. In the 2020 assemblies, held between January and February, Sicredi Iguaçu brought together more than 13 thousand people, including associates and guests, in 20 meetings (19 core assemblies, in addition to the Ordinary General Assembly), involving 24 agencies. The moment presented the financial results for the year 2019 and discussed action planning for 2020. Among the highlights presented at the 2020 assemblies was the evolution of the cooperative's results, which in 2019 grew 19% compared to 2018, reaching R$32.5 million. Members also voted on the allocation of this result. Another relevant highlight was the surpassed mark of R$ 1 billion in managed resources, Nucleus Coordinators In last year's assembly process, new Nucleus Coordinators were also elected through voting. Core Coordinators are members elected at an assembly responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and representing members at general assemblies. Each agency has its core coordinator - some agencies have more than one core, according to the number of members.26 DECISION2727 Assembly held in Francisco Beltrão, in 2020 DECISIONChopinzinho/PR Audience: 934 members and guestsSão Jorge D'Oeste/PR Public: 714 members and guests28 São João/PR Public: 778 members and guestsSaudade do Iguaçu/PR Public: 669 members and guests Sulina/PR Public: 505 members and guestsBom Sucesso do Sul/PR Public: 510 members and guests Dois Vizinhos/PR (Center and South Agencies) Public: 1099 members and guestsNova Prata do Iguaçu/PR Public: 991 members and guestsSalto do Lontra/PR Public: 919 members and guestsVerê/PR Public: 457 members and guests29 Renascença/PR Audience: 528 members and guestsFrancisco Beltrão/PR (Agencies Centro, Alto da Julio and Cidade Norte) Audience: 1578 members and guests Itapejara D'Oeste/PR Audience: 774 members and guestsMarmeleiro/PR Audience: 417 members and guests Enéas Marques/PR Audience: 541 members and guestsSão Lourenço do Oeste/PR Audience: 435 members and guests Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPNova Esperança do Sudoeste/PR Audience: 495 members and guests Campo Erê/PR Audience: 266 members and guests30 Campinas, Paulínia and Valinhos/SP Audience: 479 members and guests Ordinary General Assembly São João/PR The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) is held obligatorily once a year, at the end of each exercise. The meeting brings together all of the cooperative's Core Coordinators, who bring the vote of the members, which was decided at the Core Assemblies. Among the subjects that can be Addressed at the AGM are council elections, allocation of surpluses, presentation of reports, accountability, planning for the year, among others. In March 2020, in addition to the core coordinators, managers, directors, fiscal and administrative councils participated in the AGM, in addition to the presence of the president of Sicredi Parque das Araucárias PR/SC/SP, Clemente Renosto, and the president of the Ocepar System , José Roberto Ricken. 31 PARTICIPATORY COOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT (elect) (elect)(select) AssociatesBoard of Directors Center CoordinatorsCooperative Board of Directors Cooperative Supervisory BoardHere at Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP, associates have an active participation in our business management. Every four years, they have the mission of meeting to elect Branch Coordinators, who represent the interests of members at our General Assembly. Council members are also elected through members and Center Coordinators. Fiscal and Administration of the cooperative, the latter being responsible for the financial institution's strategy and for choosing the management body. Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Associados Board of Directors and Fiscal Council during the voting process at the 2020 assemblies Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPBoard of Directors (four-year term) The Core Coordinators, during the Ordinary General Assembly, elect the members of the Board of Directors. You Our Board of Directors are responsible for setting the general and strategic orientation and also the objectives of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP, in addition to supervising its management, so that the actions taken directly meet the interests of our members and the values of cooperativism. Board of Directors From left. to right: Anor João Gaio, Edson Luiz Nesello, Amarildo Paulo Verdi (vice-president), Lotario Luiz Dierings (president), Orley Jayr Lopes, Elton Leomar Grade and Deyves Zolette Fiscal Council (two-year term) At the Ordinary General Assembly, the members of our Fiscal Council are also elected, who strictly monitor compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration, exercise assiduous surveillance over operations, activities and services from Sicredi Iguaçu. They also examine and present to the General Assembly the opinion on the annual balance sheet and accompanying accounts. Fiscal Council From left. to right: Wilson Boff, Vlmar Cuch, Ademir Pagnocelli, Jair Antonio Colla, Paulo Roberto Ernzen and Volmir Lodi Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the management and execution of our business model. Board of Directors From left. to right: Marcia Helfenstein Koch (Business Director), Eleuterio Benin (Executive Director) and Fabio Dalponte (Operations Director)32Do you know how you can give that strength to entrepreneurs? Come with us be part of this movement. By cooperating we make the whole of Brazil grow. I COOPERATE WITH THE LOCAL ECONOMY By going to the market that is close to your home. Buying at the nearest pharmacy. Ordering clothes from your seamstress neighbor. That simple. Because when you value and buy from people from here, money circulates in the local economy. This helps each entrepreneur and develops the entire region.34 OUR NUMBERS NUMBERS OUR NUMBERS NUMBERS EXPANSION IN 2020 Sicredi has more than 117 years since its founding and yet we continue to expand. In recent years, our growth has been constant, surpassing all numbers, thus demonstrating the strength of credit cooperatives. CHECK OUT OUR NUMBERS AND WHY WE ARE A REFERENCE IN CREDIT COOPERATIVISM.35 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPNUMBERS FOR 2020 Sicredi millions of members+ 4.91 + 30 thousand employees 108 affiliated credit unions23 states and District Federal2,000 branches R$ 20.4 billion in net worth R$ 155 billion in assets Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP associates+59 thousand +380 employees 3 states Paraná, Santa Catarina and São Paulo25 branches R$ 229 million in net worthR $1.3 Billion in Assets 2,488 2018 2019 2020277.439378.496OUR RESULT Associates Total Resources (millions of R$) Credit Operations Commercial (millions of R$) 27,216 2018 2019 202032.53436.728 Rural Credit Operations (millions of R$) Result (millions of R$) Shareholders' Equity (millions of R$) 175,738 2018 2019 2020201.376229.89337 Annual Report 202 0 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP21 2018 2019 20202329Insurance portfolio (millions of R$) 180 2018 2019 2020208249Consortia (millions of R$) 167 2018 2019 2020204291Savings (millions of R$) 596 20 18 2019 20207051.058Credit (millions of R$) 1.3 2018 2019 20201.41.7Receipts - slip and card machine (billions of R$) 510 2018 2019 20208911.322Payments - Payroll and Supplier Payment (millions of R$)38EXPONENTIAL GROWTH R$1.3 billion in total resources increase compared to the previous year35% R$291 million in savings increase compared to the previous year42.3% R$267 million in demand deposit increase compared to the previous year110% R$249 million in consortium portfolio increase compared to the previous year19%R$1 billion in savings portfolio credit increase compared to the previous year50%39 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP R$29 million in insurance portfolio increase compared to the previous year26% R$7.9 million in losses avoided through insurance claims in 2020.OTHER ACTIONS IN 2020 The year 2020 began with all! We organized our assemblies in person, breaking the participation record for our members and opening a new space in Campinas/SP. In March, a few weeks After our General Assembly, news of the Coronavirus pandemic was in all newspapers and magazines, not only in the country, but in our region. Little by little we understood the moment and took all precautions to prevent the spread of the disease, thus protecting our associates, employees, directors and advisors. As a cooperative system, one of our principles is to meet the needs of members and, therefore, contribute to maintaining economic activities. In that In this sense, we extend debt maturities and seek the best alternative for each case. We create lines of credit to support companies, agricultural enterprises and individuals. We also encourage the use of our electronic means (ATMs, internet banking and apps), to avoid a greater flow of people at branches. We channel our teams to innovate and update digital functionalities, such as expanding opening hours for payment of bills, DDA, bank accounts consumption and government taxes. However, for people who still needed in-person service, we expanded the cleaning of branches and electronic terminals, limited the entry of people inside the spaces and made alcohol gel available at various points in the branches. Finally, we encourage the development of communities with the I Cooperate with the Local Economy movement. Through videos and marketing actions, we show that buying from producers in the city itself It is beneficial for the regional economic cycle. On the next pages you can see more actions carried out throughout 2020.40 HIGHLIGHTS4141 In 2020, due to the Coronavirus pandemic, Sicredi further encouraged the use of our digital channels HIGHLIGHTSKarla Costa, president of Vera Cruz Basquete, and Lotario Dierings, president of SIcredi Iguaçu upon signing the contract42 In February 2020, during the inauguration ceremony of the North-South agency, in Campinas, Sicredi Iguaçu signed the sponsorship contract with the Vera Cruz Campinas women's basketball team. The team was Brazilian champion in 2018, runner-up in 2019 and São Paulo champion in 2019. For some years now, Sicredi has been consolidating its brand in Brazilian sport, as a sponsor of football championships and various sports, as well as local teams in municipalities where the institution operates. The partnership with the women's basketball team reinforced the essence of the cooperative, which seeks to invest resources to promote and help develop different sports. For the 2020 season, expectations for the search for another national title were high, but due to the Coronavirus pandemic, the National Basketball League Sicredi and Vera Cruz Campinas entered into a Women's partnership was cancelled. Even so, Sicredi was with the athletes who showed a lot of strength, even away from the courts, with the dedication to continue training, even from home. Between November and December, the team competed Campeonato Paulista with an incredible campaign: 12 wins and just one defeat throughout the competition. In the final, Vera Cruz faced Ituano and, with a 92-57 victory, became state champions. The title came to consecrate a difficult year for the sport. The partnership continues in 2021, with the renewal of the contract to compete in the Women's National Basketball League and Campeonato Paulista. Just like last season, Sicredi's brand is printed on the side of the uniform and on the front of the shorts, in addition to other activations in the gym.43Contract signing was attended by the athletes who were part of the club's squad in 202043 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP In addition to Vera Cruz Basquete Campinas, Sicredi Iguaçu also invests in regional teams. In Santa Catarina, the São Lourenço futsal team, from the city of the same name, is sponsored by the cooperative. In Paraná, Verê Futebol Clube, which in 2021 will compete in the 2nd division of the Championship A football native from Paraná, he also has the support of Sicredi. Another club that will have the Sicredi brand in 2021 is Galo Futsal, from Dois Vizinhos. The partnership was signed for one season. A modern and spacious stand was designed to comfortably welcome members and visitors during the fair44 One of the largest fairs in Paraná and the largest in the Southwest, Expobel, held in March, in Francisco Beltrão, broke an attendance record in 2020. More than 390,000 people passed through the park of exhibitions in the city during the fair days. To be close to the municipality and its associates, Sicredi Iguaçu participated in another edition of the event. The modern stand was set up inside the events center, with a large space designed to comfortably receive members and guests. Financing photovoltaic systems was one of Sicredi's main focuses at Expobel 2020. The dizzying growth of solar energy generation is one of the cooperative's bets of credit, which brought to the fair different conditions in terms of interest and term to finance this type of initiative. At Sicredi's stand, it was possible to carry out simulations of the size of the system needed for homes or industries, based on Sicredi Iguaçu participating in another edition of Expobel's monthly energy consumption. The cooperative also offered better conditions for other types of financing. One of the lines was working capital, aimed at companies and also individual entrepreneurs. For the agricultural sector, Sicredi Iguaçu prepared two products. The first focused on the acquisition of machines and implements, with the same financing conditions via BNDES, but with the difference that it was made with the cooperative's own resources. There was also a line dedicated to the acquisition of trucks and utility vehicles. Finally, the lines dedicated to goods and services, which could be accessed by any member. In the product range was the financing, for example, of furniture, household appliances and construction materials. 4545 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPOne of the biggest solutions in the National Financial System in recent years, Pix, began operations in November 2020. Sicredi, which is always looking to provide more convenient alternatives to members, encouraged, through marketing actions and service at agencies, associates using the solution. The Pix makes it practical for people's daily lives. In a simple and practical way, consumers can transfer, pay or receive amounts at any time of the day, including weekends. Financial transactions can be made by individuals and legal entities using a registered Pix key, via QR Code, via Pix Copia e Cola or even using bank details, as is currently done. Those who haven't used it yet can register a Pix key at any time (CPF/CNPJ, email, cell phone or random key), via the Sicredi app. Even with the new option, Sicredi members continue to rely on the payment methods they already know and can choose which one best meets their needs. Pix on the card machine Two months after the launch of PIX, Sicredi expanded the use of the Central Bank's new instant payment system for its card machines. The solution is another payment option for members. To the Sicredi card machines are already used by more than 180 thousand individual microentrepreneurs (MEI), legal entities (PJ) and individuals (PF) members and help to economically develop the regions where the institution is present. The new feature reinforces Sicredi's commitment to offering greater ease, control and financial organization for members, in addition to making our card machine even more complete. Pix revolutionized the payment system It’s possible register a Pix key at any time through the Sicredi app. Transfers can be made at any time of the day, including on weekends46 The interruption of activities in a large part of commerce, industry and financial institutions, in an attempt to combat the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19), has made so-called online marketplaces -line a good alternative for companies and entrepreneurs to keep their businesses running. In this context, Sicredi launched Conecta, an application that allows Sicredi members to advertise and sell products and services among themselves. Developed by the startup Hallo, the tool has been used not only as a way to keep companies running, but also by people who want to purchase and sell products and services without leaving home, safely and through payment facilities. offered by Sicredi. Sicredi's purpose is to offer intelligent and simple solutions that help with the financial development of members, also benefiting the local community. This is one of the ways that the system found to stimulate and help small and medium-sized businesses and the economy of the regions in which it operates. The platform allows users to promote their businesses and sell their products and services online in a format that avoids direct contact, following the necessary measures at this time of prevention against Coronavirus, helping to move the economy. The tool is the result of the Inovar Juntos program, a partnership program with startups and innovative alternatives, through which Sicredi selected Hallo to develop this technology. Since its launch in 2018, the program has involved around 400 startups from various regions of the country.Sicredi Conecta helps to promote business47To reinforce the importance of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and cooperativism as engines of the Brazilian economy, Sicredi - which has has been cooperating with the development of the communities where it is present for over 117 years - it raised the banner of cooperation in a movement to engage people in favor of the economy of their region, with the campaign “I Cooperate with the Local Economy”. Through communication initiatives and the application of a seal that highlights companies that embraced our cause, Sicredi sought to stimulate consumption and local economic development - which has been our mission since its foundation in 1902. Our actions managed to positively impact different audiences, from small traders and rural producers, who felt supported throughout the campaign; Sicredi associates, who contributed to the dissemination of messages and took advantage of the business opportunities that arose with them; and, of course, consumers, who became aware of the importance of their role in driving the economy of their regions through their consumption behavior. I Cooperate With Campaign Local Economy Marangon Family, Sicredi associates 47 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPA Starting in June 2020, we, at Sicredi Iguaçu, visited some municipalities in our area of ​​activity to learn about and tell the stories of associates who reinvented themselves during the pandemic or who have already overcome obstacles in others periods of life. We are able, through videos, to describe the narratives of overcoming and encouragement of our associates who undertake or think about start your business. Meet the characters of our exciting series below:The Campaign at Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP Rosimar Mazon, Sicredi associate, protagonist of our first episodeWith the launch of our first video, our story journey began with our associate Rosimar Mazon, from Nova Esperança do Sudoeste/PR, and its snack company, Mari Salgados. Despite having faced several adversities during her life, the cooperative member won and, with our lines of facilitated credit, opened and evolved his business. With the help of his son, he produces snacks for parties, markets and local bakeries, in addition to exhibiting his products at the city's fair. Our associate Angela Marangon starred in our second episode. In the second episode of our series, we arrived in the city of Saudade do Iguaçu, in Paraná, to tell the story of producer and family farmer, Angela Marangon. Angela has been a member of Sicredi Iguaçu for over 10 years and, through of our financial solutions, you were able to modernize and boost the production of your business. Today, Angela is a producer of artisanal cheeses, some of which have already been awarded nationally for their outstanding qualities and flavors.48The city of São João, in Paraná, has trusted in the work of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP for 29 years, being our main city. Today we can repay this support by generating development for the community. And the third character in our series is from the city we came from. welcomed. Marcio Linden, entrepreneur and owner of the Magazine São João clothing store, showed us his beautiful story, from when he worked as a hairdresser with his father to the moment he gave up everything to believe in his dream of entrepreneurship. Sicredi Iguaçu provided all the necessary support and, through accessible credit lines, was able to expand its business. Marcio Linden, from São João/PR, was the protagonist of our third story Gabriel Mileski, producer of Cachaças Mileski and character from our fourth episodeIf we can choose one word to represent the story of Gabriel Mileski, it would be tradition. Owner of a journey full of twists and turns and overcoming, Mr. Mileski is a producer of artisanal cachaças - with a century-old label - from the city of São Jorge D’Oeste, in Paraná. Gabriel taught us how to be resilient, how he learned good lessons and overcame all the adversities that his family business went through over its 100 years of existence. Today, for Through effort and commitment, it helps develop the local economy of your community. 49 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPTthree friends and one goal: to undertake and make what you love a profitable business. This is how Clayton, Célito and Rogério, associates of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP, created Cervejaria Bräuheim, in the city of Saudade do Iguaçu, in Paraná. The three friends showed us the importance of believing in your dreams and having a business partner who gives you confidence and support necessary for you to make your project viable. We, at Sicredi Iguaçu, are proud to participate directly in the construction of this project, which directly supports the economy and local development. Clayton, Célito and Rogério, owners of Cervejaria Bräuheim and associates Sicredi Murici Chiodelli, general manager of Águas do Verê Termas, in ParanáCooperating and investing in local businesses has always been our priority. This is how we told the story of our associates and partners of Águas do Verê Termas, in the city of Verê, in Paraná. In the episode, the story was told by Murici Chiodelli, general manager of the establishment. Today, Termas is a reference in the area of ​​entertainment and hospitality in the Southwest of Paraná and one of the main companies in the segment throughout the South of the country, providing those who spend their leisure time with various options, such as swimming pools, water slides and restaurant. And the partnership between Termas Águas do Verê and Sicredi Iguaçu was essential for the expansion of the business and expansion of the built area.50While traveling through the Southwest of Paraná, learning about the life story and overcoming of our associates with the “Eu Coopero Com A Economia Local” project, we arrived at Nova Prata do Iguaçu /PR. On June 30th, we made an appointment with associate Izonete Arsego to learn about her and her family's business: strawberry greenhouses. The day started out rainy, but as the morning went on it was sunny, ideal for recording. of our video. Around noon, a strong wind started and we had to stop recording. When we returned to the Izonete property, we couldn't believe what we saw. The June 30 storm destroyed all of the greenhouses on the property. The joy of filming turned into sadness and despair within minutes. We took refuge inside the cars and watched everything collapse in front of us. However, they say that it is after every storm that calm comes. Izonete took a deep breath, didn't give up. He dreamed again. A woman with a hard-working history, with entrepreneurial blood running through her veins, she turned things around. After four months, we returned to Nova Prata do Iguaçu and managed to record the beautiful story of this warrior. With our support, the entrepreneur rebuilt her greenhouses and is already thinking about expanding her business. We are proud to be able to contribute so that beautiful stories like this can be told. Izonete Arsego, Sicredi associate from Nova Prata do Iguaçu/PR, owner of the company Império dos Morangos “Our solutions are aimed at associates, business owners and are connected with income generation and local development. The cooperative generates what we call a virtuous cycle, which is the permanence and reinvestment of resources in the communities in which it operates. With these premises, it makes perfect sense to reinforce the importance of purchasing from local companies.” Eleuterio Benin, executive director of Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP51 Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPRodrigo Mackievicz, Business Advisor, and Jhonathan da Rosa, Business Development Manager receiving the Outstanding awards in the Consortia and Insurance categories, respectively, from our Regional Development Manager, Kleber Giacomini and our directors Marcia Koch, Fabio Dalponte and Eleuterio Benin (left to right)52 Agência de São João/PR with the second place award in the Highlight in Business Campaign, from our Central. Crowning a year of success of records in terms of results, even though it was a difficult and uncertain period, our collaborators Jhonathan Ingles da Rosa and Rodrigo Mackievicz were awarded again - they already won last year - with the trophy from the Highlight in Business Campaign, in the Insurance and Consortia categories , respectively. In terms of agencies, we were awarded the Highlight in Business award at Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ level. The Chopinzinho/PR agency secured 1st place in its group, The São João/PR agency secured second place. We still had the Verê/PR agency in 5th place in the group in which it was included. And Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SP was also awarded. The cooperative achieved 1st place in the Cooperative Indicators category, which encompasses several metrics to define the classification. All these awards and results only show the dedication and effort that our employees make to deliver the best of credit unions every day to our associates. We supported everyone through the difficult times we went through last year, so that we can reap the fruits of this partnership that only grows together. The best award we receive is the satisfaction of those who count on us as a partner and allow us to take care of their financial life in a different way. Highlight in Business Chopinzinho Agency/PR with the first place award in the Highlight in Business Campaign, received from our Central PR/SP/RJAwards and recognitions from Iguaçu and the SystemArrancadão 2020 Arrancadão is an internal campaign by our Central PR/SP/RJ, which stimulates production and the race towards goals in the first three months of the year. Here, the agencies have a healthy competition in their groups to see who will reach the podium at the end of the campaign. In 2020 the competition was fierce. Innovations, reinventions, determination and persistence were key words for the São João agency to represent our cooperative among the three best placed in your group. The agency was awarded in the Cards category, receiving the trophy from the advisor responsible for the area and our directors. Cesar Benincá, Manager of the São João Agency, receiving the 3rd place award in the Cards category, in the Arrancadão campaign, organized by Central PR/SP/RJ. Also in the photo: Marcia Helfenstein Koch, business director, Eleuterio Benin, executive director and Rodrigo Mackievicz, business advisor53 Raiffeisen Trophy The São Lourenço do agency Oeste/SC, represented by its manager Adacir Brusso, received the Raiffeisen Trophy, which crowns the social actions developed by the agency's employees in their municipality, always showing the strength of cooperativism in favor of sustainability. Employees of the São Lourenço do Oeste agency receiving the Raiffeisen Trophy from our executive director, Eleuterio Benin Annual Report 2020 | Sicredi Iguaçu PR/SC/SPBest and Biggest Banco Sicredi was among the 50 Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Furthermore, it stood out with 2nd place in the Rural Credit ranking, maintaining the same position as last year in this indicator. Época 360 In the Época Negócios 360º yearbook, Sicredi ranked 95th in the general ranking. In this guide, prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral, the cooperative financial institution also presented a positive performance in other categories. In the sectoral ranking of Banks, it came in 5th place, if standing out within the sector with 1st place in Corporate Governance and 3rd place in Financial Performance. The institution also ranked 7th in People, 9th in Sustainability and 11th in Innovation and Future Vision. Value 1000 In the category that evaluates the 20 Largest Banks, the institution came in 2nd place among the largest banks that grew the most in Credit Operations; ranked 7th in the ranking of the Largest in Credit Operations, in Total Deposits, in Net Profit and also among those with the Best Operating Result without Equity Equivalency. It also ranked 8th on the lists of the Largest in Net Equity and Intermediation Revenue; 9th place when considering the large companies with the Best Operating Profitability, without Equity Income and also those that grew the most in Total Deposits.54 Value Large Groups In 2020, Sicredi occupied 69th place among listed companies. The institution was also ranked 13th among the 20 largest in the finance area. To top it off, Sicredi also occupies 7th place among the 20 largest in Net Profit and also 15th in Equity Profitability; 8th place among the 20 that grew the most by revenue - rising 8 positions, and 9th place among the 20 largest in Net Equity. BNDES Ranking This ranking is prepared by BNDES itself and refers to financial agents, we usually appear with important highlights, as it was now: 1st place in total indirect PF operations; 1st place in total Federal Government Agricultural Programs; 1st place in Pronaf Investimento; 1st place Inovagro; 1st place Moderagro; 1st place Pronamp Investimento. Top 100 Open Startups In 2020 we appeared for the first time in this ranking that refers to the 100 most open companies for innovation in Brazil. Top Asset In 2020, the ranking classified Sicredi in Resources from Open Pensions: the institution registered the third highest growth in the last 12 months and the fifth best performance in the last six months. It is also worth mentioning that, in the general classification, Sicredi once again occupied 18th place among the more than 140 resource managers evaluated in Brazil, with more than R$32.8 billion in resources under management. Service network Regional Superintendence Rua São Francisco , 538, Centro São João - PR Agência Chopinzinho Rua Presidente Dutra, 4114, CentroChopinzinho - PR Agência São Jorge D'Oeste Avenida Iguaçu, 304, CentroSão Jorge D'Oeste - PR Agência São João Avenida do Sul Avenida Padre Ivo Zolet. 437, CentroBom Sucesso do Sul - PRAgência Dois Vizinhos Avenida João Dalpasqualle, 266, CentroDois Vizinhos - PR Agência Nova Prata do Iguaçu Avenida Iguaçu, 708, CentroNova Prata do Iguaçu - PR Agência Salto do Lontra Avenida Bertino Warmling, 980, CentroSalto do Lontra - PR Agência Verê Avenida Luiz Francisco Paggi, 630, CentroVerê - PR Agência Renascença Avenida Castelo Branco, 829, CentroRenascença - PR Agência Francisco Beltrão Avenida Antonio Paiva Cantelmo, 850, CentroFrancisco Beltrão - PR Agency Itapejara D'Oeste Avenida Manoel Ribas, 1220, CentroItapejara D'Oeste - PR58 59Agência Itapejara D'Oeste Avenida Manoel Ribas, 1220, Centro Itapejara D'Oeste - PRAgência Marmeleiro Avenida Dambros e Piva, 667, Centro Marmeleiro - PR Agência Enéas Marques Avenida Joaquim Bonetti, 723, CentroEnéas Marques - PR Agência São Lourenço do Oeste Rua Ernesto Beuter, 452, CentroSão Lourenço do Oeste - SC Agência Nova Esperança do Sudoeste Avenida Iguaçu, 786, CentroNova Esperança do Sudoeste - PR Agência Campo Erê Rua Maranhão, 787, CentroCampo Erê - SC Agência Cidade Norte Avenida Atilio Fontana, 2940, PinheirinhoFrancisco Beltrão - PRAgência Sul Dois Vizinhos Avenida Presidente Kennedy, 627, Centro SulDois Vizinhos - PR Agência Valinhos Avenida dos Imigrantes, 214, CentroValinhos - SP Agência Paulínia Avenida José Paulino, 1736, Centro Paulínia - SP Agência Campinas Avenida Barão de Itapura, 729, BotafogoCampinas - SP Agência Alto da Júlio Avenida Júlio Assis Cavalheiro, 1362 , CentroFrancisco Beltrão - PR Agência Norte Sul Avenida José de Souza Campos, 2039, CambuíCampinas - SP59