Classification of information: Unrestricted Use CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF THE FEDERAL POLICE OFFICERS OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL AND SANTA CATARINA - SICREDI POL RS/S C CNPJ no. 03.000.142/0001 -47 CALL NOTICE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Modality of Semi-presential The President and Co-manager of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Federal Police of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina - Sicredi Pol RS/S C, in the use of the powers assigned to him confers article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the associates, who on this date number 1,439 (one thousand, four hundred and thirty-nine), to meet at an ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 27, 2023, at 17 (seventeen) hours, on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members; in the second call, at 18 (eighteen) hours, with the presence of half of the members plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 19 (decade ve) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members. The Assembly will take place in semi-presential mode, held at Apofesul - Association of Federal Police of Rio Grande do Sul, located at Av. Pará, nº 110, Navegantes neighborhood, in this city, and transmitted simultaneously, using the Pertencer Tool * accessed via the website www.sicred i.com.br/assembleia s, for members to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Relative accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance of the two semesters of the correspondent and exercise; c) loss statement; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Apportionment of losses. 3. Approval of the Administrator Succession Policy. 4. Ratification of the closure of the co-management regime in the Cooperative. 5. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Porto Alegre/RS, April 17, 2023. Geraldo Bertolo President Classification of information: Unrestricted Use Jair Ruppenthal Meinen Co-manager NOTES: 1. The Assembly will be held in a semi-presential format, the modality of which is supported by art. 17-A of Complementary Law No. 130/2009, as well as DREI Normative Instruction No. 81, of June 10, 2020. 2. The Directors' Succession Policy is available at the Cooperative's headquarters. 3. *Instructions for participation and voting in the Semi-Present Assembly: The transmission of the Assembly will be carried out live by Apofesul, simultaneously, for the participation of members in digital (distance) and in-person (physical) modalities. a) Remote participation via digital means (Belonging Tool): Members who participate via digital format must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assemblei as, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, including the legal representative of a legal entity member (if applicable), on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, opportunity in which they will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. will be Detailed instructions for registration and access to the General Assembly are made available to members, via e-mail or WhatsApp. b) In-person participation: Members who choose to participate in person must attend the place, day and time indicated in the preamble. 4. The Assembly will be electronically recorded.