Digital assembly: tutorial for the eventAssembliesGet to Know Decide to Transform Whether on your computer or cell phone, being the protagonist of this great moment is very easy: just follow this tutorial.Get to Know Decide to Transform Let's quickly remember how to access. Enter the address in your browser: sicredi.com.br/assembleiasClick on the “Access Assemble read” button in the top right corner. Log in to the platform using your CPF number and by entering the password you created. If you have forgotten your password, click on forgot my password and follow the process to register it again. Check the date, time and click on the event to access. When entering your meeting, you will need to register your participation. Check your details and click the “confirm presence” button. If you are the legal representative of other accounts, check the associates you are representing before clicking “Confirm presence”. If you don't want represent an account, just uncheck it. If you are accessing the platform via cell phone, the “Confirm presence” button is at the bottom of the screen. After confirming your presence, you will see the broadcast of your meeting. Computer Cell Phone By clicking on the “Documents” button, you can consult the materials made available by your cooperative. To read a document, click “Download”. If you are using a computer, click “Open file” to access the content. If If you are on your cell phone, the document will be saved on your device, in the “Downloads” folder. This icon shows that the file has already been downloaded. If your cooperative provides additional videos, they are in the “Videos” option. In the “Chat” area, you can clarify your doubts and send comments. Use this option to type your message. When the cooperative responds to your inquiry, you will receive a notification. Click to read!On your cell phone, click the Chat button. You You will also receive a notiﬁcation when your question has been answered. On the Assembly page, you will also find all the agendas that will be discussed. If they are listed as “Blocked”, it is because the cooperative has not yet opened the vote. When the agenda opens for voting, you will see that the label has changed to “Released”. Below you will find the voting options. Important: if you confirmed your presence, be sure to vote and make a difference in your cooperative. You can click on the voting monitoring banner, which displays the count of the total number of topics and the topics already voted on. Select the desired option and don't forget to click on “Vote”. After voting, you will receive a conﬁrmation message. After your vote is sent, the agendas are automatically reordered. The next agenda released for voting goes to the top of the list. When voting is closed by the cooperative, click on the “Partial result” button to view the results of your core and other cores of your agency. On cell phones, the “Partial result” button is at the bottom of the screen. Ready! You made a difference in the growth of your cooperative and the development of your region. To leave the platform, click on your name. Thank you for being part of the 2022 Assemblies. Your participation results in a better cooperative.