SICREDI CREDUNI - ECONOMY AND MUTUAL CREDIT COOPERATIVE OF SERVANTS OF PUBLIC HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS IN THE STATE OF PARAÍBA AND OTHER PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS AND BODIES IN THE STATE OF PARAÍBA LTDA. CNPJ: 03.428.338/0001-37 NIRE: 25400005779 The President of the Board of Directors of COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT – SICREDI CREDUNI, located at Rua Antenor Navarro, 496 – Bairro da Prata, CEP 58400 – 520, Campina Grande/PB, registered with the CNPJ under no. 03.428.338/0001-37, using the responsibilities conferred on it by the Cooperative's Bylaws, summons its 23 (twenty-three) delegates from sectional groups, representing the members who on this date total 8,713 (eight thousand seven hundred and thirteen), to meet in Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly, to be held DIGITALLY, on April 16, 2021, obeying the following times and minimum installation quorum, in accordance with Art. 24, of the Bylaws: 01) on first call, at 8 am, with the minimum quorum of 2/3 of the total number of delegates; 02) in second call, at 9 am, with a minimum quorum of half the total number of delegates plus one; 03) in third call, at 10 am, with a minimum quorum of 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members and delegates, using the Pertencer* tool, accessed via the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, with the exception of the election for members of the Fiscal Council that will take place through the Beevoter** tool, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the agenda: AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Until 6 pm or until all Delegates vote, whichever comes first: 1) Vote for election of Members of the Fiscal Council for the 2021 financial year. From 6 pm: 2) Accounting for the 2020 financial year, comprising the Annual Management Report, the Balance Sheet with Statement of Surplus and Losses Account and Opinions of the Independent Audit and Fiscal Council; 3) Allocation of net surpluses determined from the 2020 financial year; 4) Proposal for using FATES; 5) Action plan for the 2021 financial year; 6) Setting the fees of the members of the Executive Board, the President and Vice-president of the Board of Directors and the attendance slips of the members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board; 7) Proclamation of the candidates elected for the next fiscal year of the Fiscal Council. IN GENERAL ASSEMBLY EXTRAORDINARY Immediately after completion of the items above: 1) Approval of systemic policies and standards: Compliance Policy, Corporate Governance Policy, Internal Audit Standard, Compliance Risk Management Standard, Sicredi Internal Regulations – RIS and Electoral Code. Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the Assembly participation tool will be available to members and delegates on the website www.sicredi.com.br/creduni and at the cooperative’s headquarters. To participate in the Digital Assembly, members and delegates must follow the following steps: 1. Check that your telephone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or by contacting your cooperative; 2. Using the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, register and create a password; 3. On the day and time of the Digital Assembly, members and delegates must access the the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, enter your CPF and registered password, click on your cooperative's event and you will be able to participate in discussions and votes on items on the agenda, observing the provisions of art. 21, §10º, of the Bylaws; Delegates who access the virtual room of the Digital Assembly at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, will be guaranteed the right to written statement, addressed to the board of directors, via chat, thus safeguarding their full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. Voting will be carried out through electronic systems enabled in the Pertencer and BeeVoter** tools at the time of the Digital Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of electronic tools. Voting to elect Council members Tax will be carried out through the BeeVoter tool, through prior and individual registration of delegates in the aforementioned system, and they must access the voting tool through the link sent to their respective emails or cell phones (SMS), registered with the cooperative, through users and personal, non-transferable passwords. The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43-A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN-DREI nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. LIST OF DELEGATES Adail Ferreira da Silva Paz Benedita Edina da Silva Lima Cabral Carmen Lúcia do Nascimento Clemente Ricardo Silva Daniel Mendes Cavalcante Djaci Almeida de Queiroz Francisca Barbosa Santana de Britto Francisco Alves Batista Gilberto Spider Package Ivan Ramos Cavalcanti Jandmara de Oliveira Lima Josenira dos Santos França Luziana Pereira Bezerra Luzinete do Nascimento Ferreira Manoel Alves de Sousa Marcelo Cavalcanti Rodrigues Marcílio Souto Soares Marcos Mesquita da Silva Maria das Graças Farias Teó/f_ilo Newton Martinho Eloi Ramalho Rochane Villarim de Almeida Vicente Ferreira dos Anjos Neto Zenilda Matias Brasil Probst Campina Grande – PB, April 6, 2021All members may participate in the Digital Assembly, however, the right to voice and vote is restricted to Delegates (Art. 21, § 10 of the Bylaws). *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, registering and identifying with their CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstration and vote, media- **Instructions for voting on the BeeVoter platform: delegates will access the tool through prior and individual registration in the aforementioned system, and they must access the voting tool through the link sent to their respective emails or cell phones ( SMS), registered with the cooperative, through personal and non-transferable users and passwords. The DIGITAL ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY CALL NOTICE tool (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43-A) provides remote action, in real time. allows voting on a maximum of 03 (three) names, with votes not voted in the system being considered blank. Campina Grande – PB, April 6, 2021Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão Chairman of the Board of Directors