1 Independent auditor's report on the financial statements To the Administrators and Associates of Sicredi Creduni - Economic and Mutual Credit Cooperative of the Servants of Public Higher Education Institutions of the State of Paraíba and Other Institutions and Public Bodies in the State of Paraíba LTDA Campina Grande / PB Opinião We examined the financial statements of Sicredi Creduni - Cooperative of Economics and Mutual Credit of the Servants of Public Higher Education Institutions of the State of Paraíba and of Other Institutions and Public Bodies in the State of Paraíba LTDA (“Cooperative”), which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2021, and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, comprehensive income, changes in equity and flows cash flow for the year ending on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present adequately, in all relevant aspects, the patrimonial and financial position of Sicredi Creduni - Cooperativa de Economia e Crédito Mútuo dos Serv das Inst Públicas de Ensino Superior do Estado da Paraíba and Other Institutions and Public Bodies in the State of Paraíba LTDA on 31 December 2021, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operated by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities, in accordance with such standards, are described in the following section entitled “Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report The Cooperative's board of directors is responsible for this other information that comprises the Management Report. Our opinion on the demos financial statements does not cover the Management Report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on that report. In connection with the audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Management Report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or , otherwise, appears to be distorted in a relevant way. If, based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is a material distortion in the Management Report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Management and governance responsibilities for the financial statements The management is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and the internal controls that it has determined are necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the board is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in preparing the financial statements unless that the board intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no realistic alternative to avoid closing operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing the financial statements. Auditor's Responsibilities for Auditing the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, and issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any existing relevant distortions. Misstatements may arise from fraud or error and are considered material when, individually or collectively, they may influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users made based on said financial statements. As part of the audit performed, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. In addition: We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, plan and we performed audit procedures in response to such risks, and obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, omission or intentional false representations. We obtained an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Cooperative's internal controls.3 We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board. We conclude on the adequacy of the management's use of the going concern accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is relevant uncertainty in in relation to events or conditions that may raise significant doubt regarding the Cooperative's ability to continue operating. If we conclude that material uncertainty exists, we should draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or include a modification of our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. Still, Future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer remain in operational continuity. We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent related transactions and events in a manner consistent with the objective of fair presentation. We communicate with those responsible for governance regarding, among other aspects, the scope and timing of planned audit and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, March 7, 2022 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC – 2SP015199/F-7 Américo F. Ferreira Neto Contador CRC-1SP192685/O-9