Annual Report Sicredi Creduni 212 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni TIMELINE Chairman of the Board of Directors Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão Executive Director Rômulo Marinho do Rêgo Director of Operations Otávio Santiago MouraGeneral Coordination Rômulo Marinho do Rêgo Editorial and Layout Anne Caroline de Oliveira Pereira (DRT- PB 3888)Photography Collection sicredi.com.br/creduniMESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT .................................... .......................... 05 OUR COOPERATIVE .................................................... .................... 06 07 » ......................... .................................................... ...... HIGHLIGHTS IN 2 021 ........................................ .................................. 08 » .............. .................................................... .................................... 08 RELATIONSHIPS AND C OOPERATIVISM .......... ..................... 12 » .................................................... ................ 13 » ................................ ............................... 16 » .................... ................................. 17 RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS ............. ................................................. .. .................................................... ................................... 18 ACCOUNTABILITY ........... .................................................... ..... 2319 » SERVICE NETWORK  ............................................... ..................... PRODUCTS AND SERVICES .......................... ...................................... Summary3 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni 07 » .................................................... ...............................Regional operations Our numbers 10 » ............. .................................................... ........... Digital transformation 11 » .................................................... ............ Coping with the pandemicNews How we make a difference Our governance model With the floor, our associates Investments 20 »Solar Energy Financing .............. ....................................... 20 »Vehicle Financing ... .................................................... ............ 21 »Consortia ................................... .................................................... ......... 22 »Cards ................................................ .................................................... ..21 »Salary portability/ Banking domicile ..................................... 24 »Financial Results .................................................... ..................... 25 »2021 Annual Management Report .................... .................................... 27 »Planning for 2022 ......... .................................................... ......... 28 »Report FATES Annual 2021 .............................................. .......... 29 »FATES 2022 Action Plan 30 »Financial Statements 2021 ........................... ........................... 31 »Independent Audit Opinion ................. ................................. 34 36 37»Opinion of the Supervisory Board ......... .................................................... .................................................... ..............Presentation4 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni We are Sicredi Creduni, a cooperative that has been operating throughout Paraíba for 23 years, transforming the lives of our members. We are part of Sicredi, a national system, made up of more than 100 cooperatives, 5.5 million members who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network that supports its prosperity with responsible financial solutions. So that you can learn about and participate in this transformation, we will share, in this report, information about how we generate value throughout 2021, including the main achievements of our Cooperative, financial results, events held and solutions offered. Throughout the document, we will also show how our responsible and close action contributed to generating a positive impact on the lives of associates, their communities and the region. Good reading! We have a lot to celebrate with the achievements obtained in 2021. Sicredi Creduni successfully faced another challenging year due to pandemic and its macroeconomic effects. Our resilience, our ability and determination to face challenges were tested and made us stronger, more harmonious and cohesive. The union of all those who were engaged in the construction and strengthening of a cooperative project with a success story of more than twenty years, showed how cooperation contributes to social, economic and ﬁnancial sustainability, preventing it from prevailing. - create group-based situations with views that have already been overcome or in individual interest, as opposed to collective interest. We invested in the relationship with our members and are already reaping good results such as the growth in the number of those who operate fully with the cooperative measured through the Solutions Index per Member (ISA) and the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey around of 80%. We have improved our physical service model to continue providing good physical service at branches and to serve members remotely from all corners of Paraíba. To this end, we seek to expand and consolidate service to members through a relationship center (CRM) at the administrative headquarters of Sicredi Creduni. We expanded the offer of pre-approved credit for vacation and 13th salary advances, using digital channels for members who receive their salary from the cooperative and operate fully with it. We offer lower interest rates on loans and in debt portability for members whose main operations were in the cooperative, either by establishing a banking address or through salary portability. We expanded the range of services for condominiums, solar energy financing and vehicle financing. The health measures to combat the pandemic, essential to contain the spread of the virus and to protect the health of associates and employees, had impacts on the levels of business, but much less than we anticipated. 487 new associates joined Sicredi Creduni, we had a 5.5% increase in the credit portfolio, employees received 1.5 profit sharing salaries, the share capital received remuneration of 100% of the Selic, the company’s reserves cooperative are approaching 30 million for a share capital of 31.7 million and the surplus of 11.9 million, before paying interest on the capital, will guarantee, once again, the sustainability of the cooperative. performance and profitability for investors that is higher than what they would obtain in other financial institutions. Those who believed in the management of the cooperative showed a spirit of cooperation and won. Congratulations to the associates and thank you for your trust! Message from the President5 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão Chairman of the Board of Directors Our cooperative Sicredi Creduni MISSION Contribute to the well-being of members through education, guidance and economic-financial solutions. VISION To be the main financial institution for employees of public institutions and bodies in the state of Paraíba. VALUES Ethics Transparency Integrity Equity 1. Free and voluntary membership; 2. Democratic management; 3. Economic participation of its members; 4. Autonomy and independence; 5. Education, training and information; 6. Intercooperation; 7. Interest in the community. Solidarity Professionalism Credibility Sustainability PRINCIPLES OF COOPERATIVISMFounded in 1999 by UFPB employees, Sicredi Creduni has a history of success contributing to the economic and financial well-being of its associates, as well as to the development of public bodies and institutions and the community in which it operates. Offers all services and financial products through personalized quality service, within ethical principles and values ​​based on respect for the associate, owner and cooperative user. In 2016 we joined Sicredi, a nationwide system, with specialized companies and financial instruments that safely provide a large number of products and services suited to the reality of our members and that increase security and strengthen our local operations. . We are a Cooperative Financial Institution with more than 8,800 members, 63 employees and 7 branches. Present throughout Paraíba, and physically in the city of Campina Grande, where the Administrative Headquarters and the Prata, UFCG, UEPB agencies operate; in João Pessoa with the Castelo Branco, Centro de Vivência UFPB and Jaguaribe agencies and in Patos with Agência Patos, in addition to services through relationship channels, Corporate WhatsApp and Relationship Center, in all cities in the state. We form part of 18 other sister cooperatives, the Cooperativa Central Sicredi NNE, based in Cabedelo-PB, one of the 5 central cooperatives that constitute the Sicredi Confederation, with headquarters in Porto Alegre/RS.6 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni 7 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Regional Operation Paraíba Agencies installed CAMPINA GRANDE . Administrative Headquarters. Ag. UFCG . Ag. UEPB . Ag. Silver. Ag. UFPB Experience Center. Ag. Patos . Ag. Castelo Branco . Ag. JaguaribeJOÃO PESSOA PATOSCAMPINA GRANDEJOÃO PESSOAPATOS Our Numbers Sicredi Creduni Sicredi 8,779 associates 63 employees R$ 301 million in assets R$ 70.5 million net worth R$ 210.6 million balance in credit portfolio 5.5 million associates + 30 thousand employees R$ 205.7 billion in assets R$ 25.3 billion net worth R$ 134.8 billion balance in credit portfolio Data: Dec/2021Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings 2021 In 2021, on April 16, Sicredi Creduni held the Ordinary General Meetings (AGO) and Extraordinary General Meetings (AGE) 2021 for the first time digitally, through the Assembly Platforms Digital and Beevoter, making it possible to access via cell phone, tablet, computer, providing the opportunity for members to participate wherever they are, from the comfort of their home, workplace, in any city, state or country, simply needing of internet signal. The main objective was to provide accounts, elect the new fiscal council and decide on the allocation of the results achieved as well as the planning for 2021. The results (leftovers) determined in the year 2021, reaffirmed for borrower members the benefit of receiving part of the interest paid on loans and for investing members to receive an excellent return on their financial investments, through the distribution of surpluses. Chairman of the Board of Directors leading the AssemblyCHECK OUT THE MAIN EVENTS THROUGHOUT THE YEAR: TRANSMISSION VOTING CONFIRMATION On the scheduled day and time, the live transmission takes place. Delegate discusses and votes on agendas by the tool itself. Delegate ends his participation by confirming the vote. REGISTRATION NOTICE Associates register on the tool. We publish the Call Notice inviting the Sectional Delegates, as well as interested members. CHECK OUT HOW SICREDI CREDUNI'S VIRTUAL MEETINGS OCCUR Inauguration of the Fiscal Council 2021 On May 28th, Sicredi Creduni's Fiscal Council took office, elected at the AGM for a one-year term. The new advisors, after approval by the Bank Central do Brasil, were sworn in by the President of the Board of Directors, Prof. Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão, in an online ceremony in the presence of regional directors and managers. The 2021 Fiscal Council was headed by: Álvaro Luís P. de Farias (Board Coordinator), Mário Victor B. Vasconcelos and Tânia Maria C. Braga, and as alternates the associates José Carlos de L. Júnior and Talvanes M . Oliveira. Sitting Fiscal Councilors in meeting 8th Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Highlights in 2021Inauguration of the New Director of Operations Election of Sectional Delegates (quadrennium 2022-2025)New Director of Operations On December 14th, Sicredi Creduni held the election for the position of Sectional Delegate for representation in the General Assembly . The Delegates elected to represent the members at the General Assemblies have a mandate of four. Member Otávio Santiago Moura took office on September 24th as Director of Operations. Bachelor in Business Administration (2005) and Specialist in Information Security (2005), businessman Otávio Moura has held the positions of Administration Advisor and Tax Advisor for the last 15 years, accumulating extensive experience in the cooperative. years, starting on 01/01/2022 and ending on 12/31/2025. The Cooperative was divided into 24 sectional groups, in accordance with Article 21 of the Bylaws, with each group being elected an effective delegate and another substitute. You new sectional delegates are: GROUP 1: Francisco Alves Batista GROUP 2: Manoel Freire de Oliveira Neto GROUP 3: Daniel Mendes Cavalcante GROUP 4: Carlos Alberto de Medeiros GROUP 5: Rosivaldo Dantas de Araújo GROUP 6: Robert Rice Brandt GROUP 7: João Arthur Brunet Monteiro GROUP 8: Israel Lourenço da Silva GROUP 9: Glageane da Silva Souza GROUP 10: Ricardo Schmidt Filho GROUP 11: Maria do Socorro Batista de Lima GROUP 12: Hélio dos Santos Xavier GROUP 13: Camilo Allyson Simões de Farias GROUP 14: Francisco de Assis Bezerra e Silva GROUP 15: Severina dos Santos Silva GROUP 16: Newton Martinho Eloi Ramalho GROUP 17: Ivan Ramos Cavalcanti GROUP 18: Marcelo Cavalcanti Rodrigues GROUP 19: Itania Kalenya Nunes Pereira GROUP 20: Antônio Carlos Bezerra Grilo GROUP 21: Manoel Isidro dos Santos Neto GROUP 22: Thales Spinelli Maximo Lins GROUP 23: Vagner Cesarino de Souza GROUP 24: Antônio Claudio da Silveira Alves HOLDERS GROUP 1: Pablo Henrique dos Santos Silva GROUP 2: Rochane Villarim de Almeida GROUP 3: Djaci Almeida de Queiroz GROUP 4: José Alberto da Nóbrega Simplício GROUP 5: Wilson Wouﬂan Silva GROUP 6: Alessandro Francisco dos Santos GROUP 7: - GROUP 8: - GROUP 9: - GROUP 10: - GROUP 11: Irurá Fernandes dos Santos GROUP 12: - GROUP 13: Kleberson Torres Nascimento GROUP 14: Amelia Ferreira Martins Limeira GROUP 15: Mario Enrique Silva do Nascimento GROUP 16: - GROUP 17: Edson Franco de Moraes GROUP 18: Euridice Ferreira de Almeida GROUP 19: Leila Mara Gonçalves GROUP 20: Helder Alves de Oliveira GROUP 21: Clemente Ricardo Silva GROUP 22: Helena Soares de Souza GROUP 23: Carmen Lucia do Nascimento GROUP 24: Divanira Ferreira MaiaSUPLENTS9 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Digital Transformation In 2021, Sicredi Creduni advanced in Digital Transformation. With the aim of providing a Physical experience, with the perspective of offering members access to the best of both worlds: the physical and the digital. In this regard We are already enjoying these experiences with the Digital Platform. This process allows for technologies that support the construction of a new experience for members, but always keeping people as protagonists of these changes. “What do the agencies of the future have? It has proximity, ease and connection. The interaction that digital transformation is promoting helps to strengthen relationships with our associates and creates new business opportunities.” Whatsapp Enterprise: Theo, Sicredi's virtual assistant, receives award Our virtual assistant via WhatsApp, Theo, received the Banking Transformation 2021 Award - Banking Report, an award given to encourage and value initiatives by financial institutions, contributing to the improvement of the sector. The winning case was the “Implementation of WhatsApp Enterprise + Theo”, which involves the use of artiﬁcial intelligence to provide more agility and eﬃciency to service, through the App of instant messaging. The initiative competed with 230 other cases, being the best evaluated by a committee made up of experts in innovation and the banking sector. Theo, whose name is a tribute to Father Theodor Amstad, patron of Brazilian cooperatives, clarifies doubts such as stopping checks, checking credit card limits and bills, taking out home insurance, among others. The WhatsApp Enterprise tool allows members to send messages via number (51) 3358 4770 for Theo or to speak to one of our customer service representatives in a practical way, clarify doubts about products and services, resolve demands, as well as send suggestions, compliments and complaints. MORE AGILITY AND EFFICIENCY IN SERVICE Up to Currently, more than 3,900 members have used the tool and around 15 thousand services have been provided, making Sicredi Creduni the cooperative that uses the platform the most among those that make up the Center Sicredi NNE.Silvio Cézar Pereira de Araújo, Manager of the Patos Agency10 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Coping with the pandemic Sicredi Creduni, aware of the difficult circumstances experienced by everyone in the face of the health and economic crisis we are facing, sought, within its possibilities, to mitigate the effects of the pandemic in the community. In this sense, the Board of Directors authorized the use of initial resources in the amount of R$ 50,000.00 (fifty thousand reais) to donations to the community. In 2021, the following requests were met: Donation of 500 N95 masks and more than 2,000 surgical masks to the Pedro I Municipal Hospital; Donation of 2 air conditioning units to the Elpídio de Almeida Health Institute (ISEA Maternity) for the covid-19 ward; Donation of 3 wheelchairs and more than 600 N95 masks to the Hospital das Clínicas de Campina Grande; Donation of 40 basic food baskets to the Pastoral da Alimentação (Movement of Food Aid) from the Diocesan Seminary Parish; Donation of 60 basic food baskets to the Social Campaign of the Disciples of Jesus Group. ISEA - Devices installedDiocesan Seminar Hospital de Clínicas de CG Hospital Municipal Pedro IMaternity ISEA Disciples of Jesus Group11 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Relationship and cooperativism12 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni To contribute to financial education and assist in the process of filling out the tax return Income Tax, Sicredi Creduni promoted the series “Simplifying Income Tax with Sicredi Creduni” in March and April. With the aim of clarifying doubts, the Sicredi Creduni Basic Income Tax Course included: Codisma and Sicredi Creduni Partnership Employees attending class Following one of the principles of cooperativism: intercooperation, Sicredi Creduni, in partnership with Cooperativa Codisma, trained 10 employees through the course for the use and interpretation of the Brazilian Sign Language (Libras) in order to guarantee the inclusion of everyone. The course lasted 4 months, with a workload of 40 hours and offered theoretical and practical classes. series offered members, dependents and the interested public an online course held on 10/03 with Professor João Marcelo Alves Macedo, PhD in Accounting Sciences, a live on Instagram held on 17/03 and publications on this social network with tips about the IRPF 2021 declaration. With the aim of assisting in financial organization and income generation, Sicredi Creduni encourages the professional training of its members and dependents, offering free courses in partnership Courses for members and dependents Sicredi Creduni celebrated International Women's Day, March 8, highlighting the importance of their social, political and economic participation as a basis for building a better and more cooperative world. To celebrate this date, roses were distributed truffles for the associates who visited the agencies. Women's Day To honor mothers and fathers for the passage of their days, celebrated on May 9th and August 6th respectively, Sicredi Creduni distributed gifts to associates who visited the branches. Mother's Day and Father's DayAssociate receiving a gift at Agência Prata Associate receiving her gift at Agência UEPBAssociate receiving her gift at Agência Patos with SENAC, SENAI AND SEBRAE. In 2021 associates participated in more than 100 courses. Access the websites of these partner institutions, check the available courses and contact your agency. 13 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Creduni How we make a difference Sicredi Creduni member Renato Santos Lourenço had his photo “Sea, Sand and Shadow” selected to illustrate Sicredi’s NNE 2022 Regional Calendar, in addition to receiving a trophy as an award. Congratulations to everyone who participated in the campaign.Associate receiving the Foto Mar, Areia e Sombra Photo Competition award Sicredi Creduni supported the carrying out of the actions in celebration of Public Servants Day promoted by the Vice-Rectories of People Management of the Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB) and the Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB) and the Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB) and the Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB) Campina Grande (UFCG). The actions, carried out on October 28th, included several activities planned for the server, such as distribution of gifts, smartphone raffles, lectures, prizes with gift certificates, among others. Actions in celebration of Public Servants' Day Sicredi Creduni also supported the 1st Civil Servants' Race at the Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB) held on November 7th. The race saw the participation of more than 500 athletes, including Sicredi Creduni employees who competed and won participation medals. On the occasion, gifts from the cooperative were distributed.Server Race A Sicredi Creduni was present at the 1st edition of Pedal Cooperativo in Campina Grande, promoting raffles for participants. The action, carried out on December 11th, mobilized cyclists from across the city, including Sicredi Creduni members, and benefited with more than half a ton of non-perishable food, around 710 people served by the benefited institutions. .Pedal Cooperativo Associados celebrating Public Servants Day Administration Councilor, João Marcelo Alves Macedo, with his family participating in the Associate Server Race receiving awards Associates and Collaborators at the event alongside the President of the OCB/PB System, Dr. André Pacelli 14 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni How we make a differenceC-Day Cooperation Day (C-Day ), in 2021 celebrated on July 3, International Cooperative Day, is a national initiative of the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) that expresses the strength of cooperativism in for social transformations. To celebrate this date, Sicredi Creduni launched a challenge for employees and associates to collect basic food baskets. Together we collected more than 1.5 tons of food, which were destined for charitable institutions and other groups in situations of social vulnerability in Campina Grande, João Pessoa and Patos. Casa de Acolhida Maria Rosa Mística Coop. of Recyclable Materials Workers Vaso Novo Social Projects Group Solidário Ser de Luz Collection at the UFPB agency Associação Donos do Ajante Christmas + Solidário With the cooperation of its associates and collaborators, Sicredi Creduni promoted another edition of the Natal + Solidário Campaign, this year, giving gifts to long-term care institutions for the elderly. In addition to the donation of personal hygiene materials and food, Sicredi Creduni also delivered gifts in Campina Grande at Creche Municipal Isabele Barbosa da Silva, benefiting around 244 children. elderly people received gifts chosen by them. In total, around 100 people benefited. We appreciate the solidarity and cooperation of everyone who once again contributed to the success of the campaign. Lar da Sagrada Face Lar do Idoso Jesus de Nazaré Amem Shelter Isabele Barbosa da Silva Creche15 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni How we make a differenceOur Governance model Governance Organizational Chart Sicredi Creduni At Sicredi Creduni, our associates have an active participation in the management of the business. Every four years, members, divided into 24 sectional groups, elect Sectional Delegates to represent and defend their interests at the Ordinary General Assembly. Furthermore, the Delegates elect the members of the Board of Directors, the body responsible for managing the Cooperative and appointing the Executive Board. Executive Board The Executive Board is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the executive management of the business. Rômulo Marinho do Rêgo Executive DirectorOtávio Santiago Moura Director of Operations Board of Directors (2018-2021) Fiscal Council (2021) Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão President José Benjamim Pereira Filho Vice-PresidentEffective: Álvaro Luís Pessoa de Farias - (Board Coordinator) Mário Victor Beserra Vasconcelos Tânia Maria Correia Braga José Carlos de Lima Júnior Talvanes Meneses Oliveira Counselors Members: Chateaubriand Pinto Junior Flag João Marcelo Alves Macedo Maria Teresa Nascimento Silva Ricardo José Medeiros e Silva Substitutes: 16 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni With a word, our associates Being a member of Sicredi Creduni makes my life easier. In addition to the personalized and attentive service from employees who know my financial health and always guide me towards making the best decisions, I do not feel extorted, as I did at several banks in that I noticed. At Sicredi Creduni at UEPB - the agency I work at - I feel part of a functional, supportive and safe team, even when talking about the financial market. I feel like everyone wins there. Being part of Sicredi Creduni is a privilege. It is an institution that is truly concerned with the financial lives and well-being of its members and families. Furthermore, it has a team of employees who are always very attentive and capable of providing personalized and quality service. quality. The contact that managers have with us provides personalized and fast service, facilitating financial transactions. I managed to collect all my loans from the cooperative with lower interest rates than other financial institutions. Furthermore, with the products I have at Sicredi Creduni, at the end of each year, as a member, I can have a share in the company's profits. And Creduni is much more, I recommend it! Mauriene Freitas Bolívar Damasceno Marcelo Sá Geisa Fabiane Ivo TavaresBeing Sicredi Creduni means being part of a network in which everyone collaborates for joint growth. It's vibrating at every small or big achievement, it's solidarity in difficult times and, above all, it's ethics and care for yourself and your finances. It will never be just an agency or a cooperative, it is a big house shared by all of us. It is an immense satisfaction to be part of this cooperative as a member, it guides us in the best way to maintain financial health, provides a good service and the clarity of the information is what makes me even more confident in having my resources invested. Rates proportional to the market, it is also concerned with the social side, as well as the professionalism and transparency of its employees, providing all the necessary support to its members. 17 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Responsible solutions18 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni 19 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Invest with Sicredi Creduni. SAVINGS: For those who like tradition, low risk and security. INVESTMENT FUNDS: For those looking for profitability and want to have diversification. FIXED INCOME: For those who want predictability, guarantees and attractive rates. PENSION PENSION: For those who want to guarantee a safe and peaceful future. The security of our members' investments is attested by the main credit risk rating agencies in the world, which guaranteed Sicredi the following scale ratings national: And it also has the following guarantees: 1) Efficient management and committed to good social and economic-financial results; 2) Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop) which guarantees up to 250 thousand reais in deposits; 3) Sicredi System Solidarity Guarantee; 4) Maintenance of good results by the Equalization Fund, which has 6.5 million reais; 5) Strength of quality capital represented by the Contingency Fund, Legal Reserve resources and by the Equalization Fund, which after the 2021 Ordinary General Assembly together reach an amount greater than 29.9 million reais and place Sicredi Creduni in a prominent position among other credit cooperatives in the north and northeast. At Sicredi Creduni, the member Investors have access to several investment options for all their objectives. Fitch Ratings: AA Moody’s: AA1 Standard & Poor’s: AAA Sicredi Asset Management: FORTE20 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Solar Energy Financing Vehicle FinancingSicredi Creduni finances your project, acquisition and installation of equipment for solar energy production under special conditions. This product is aimed at members interested in using alternative and renewable sources of energy, saving on their electricity bills and reducing the impact on the environment. See some benefits: . Quick credit analysis; . 100% financing of the project, with no down payment; . 90-day grace period to pay the 1st installment; . Reduction of up to 95% on your electricity bill; . Financing of the amount with a payment term of up to 60 months. Sicredi Creduni finances the acquisition of new and used vehicles, national or imported. See some benefits: . EASE: Pay the financing in installments without compromising your budget and according to your needs. . CONVENIENCE: The value of the installments is debited directly from your account, facilitating your payment schedule. . PEACE OF MIND: Plan your financial life better, with a period of up to five years to pay the financing. . SECURITY: The credit limit is available according to each member's payment capacity and the vehicle's manufacturing time. SIMULATE AND CONTRACT. 21 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Consortia Salary Portability Domicile Banking With the support of Sicredi Creduni, you carry out your projects in a cooperative and safe. Program your future with the plan that best suits your needs and be part of a value chain that benefits the member, the cooperative and the local community. Check out the options available to you: . Services Consortium. Sustainable Consortium. Real Estate Consortium. Truck, Tractor and Utility Consortium. Automobile, Motorcycle and Nautical Consortium. Custom Furniture Consortium. Drone Consortium Portable your salary to Sicredi Creduni at no cost or changing your banking address at your institution. With salary portability, you can choose Sicredi to receive payments into your checking account or savings account, at no additional cost. In your cooperative you have many more benefits. Discover the advantages: . Current account with optional service package. Participation in the results (leftovers) of the cooperative*. Special Check with the best rate on the market. Movement of Current Account with Debit Card and Checkbook. Income Tax Refund Advance. Salary advance (13th month advance, Vacations) . Checkbook  . Personal Credit *The movement of the Current Account generates benefits and increases its participation in the distribution of results (surplus).22 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni At Sicredi Creduni, the credit card had a signiﬁcant increase in adoption. In addition to the benefits offered by Sicredi Credu- ni, this product has great acceptance among members and has become one of the best on the market due to participation in the Get to know a little about the benefits of this product: . Purchases and withdrawals in Brazil and abroad. Online shopping. Possibility of additional card. Return of the annual fee. Cashback benefits. Up to 40 days to pay. Purchase installments. Participation in results (leftovers). Sicredi Platinum Card Ideal for those who frequently travel internationally. national and values ​​special programs and benefits, in addition to high quality services. . Sicredi Gold Card For those looking for a card with a higher credit limit, value reward programs and need insurance and assistance for their purchases. . Sicredi Black Card For those who value unique experiences, new opportunities, enjoy good results Cards (surplus), rewards program that uses accumulated points as discounts (cashback), return of annual fee, be international and offer excellent assistance on the Sicredi App and Internet Banking. restaurants and travels frequently in Brazil and abroad. . Sicredi Internacional Card Perfect for those who need a basic card for their daily lives, with credit and debit functions. . Sicredi Debit Card Tailor-made for those who value practicality and security when making everyday purchases or making withdrawals. 23 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni AccountabilityAssociated Financial Results 8,574 20198,690Credit Operations (millions of R$) 206.4210.6 199.7 Total Deposits (millions of R$) 177.1188,2196.2Share Capital (millions of R$ ) 40.2 31,637.4 Total Assets (millions of R$) 280.6301.0 302.8Total Reserves (millions of R$) 23,229.8 26.8 Net Income (millions of R$) 15.4 9,014.2Equity Net (millions of R$) 77.7 70,578,42020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 20218.77924 Annual Report 2021 SICR EDI CREDUNI ANNUAL MANAGEMENT REPORT 202125 ANNUAL REPORT 2021 SICR EDI CREDUNI This report deals with activities developed by Sicredi Creduni in the year 2021, including administration actions, financial activities, accounting results and activities sponsored by the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund – FATES, presented to the membership, in accordance with legal provisions and statutory, the development of our Cooperative in that year. The Covid-19 pandemic had signiﬁcant impacts on the Cooperative’s operations, particularly work from home and the temporary closure of branches due to government social distancing measures and employees infected by the virus in several agencies, which reduced the availability of employees. at agencies while they recovered. On the other hand, the pandemic created an opportunity for the cooperative to serve its members remotely, by electronic means, which we consider an advance and a trend that we hope to consolidate. The Board of Directors of Sicredi Creduni considers that the results presented are very positive in terms of serving members in active and passive operations, but it still needs to improve in the offering and provision of services considered ancillary and work towards ensuring that more members operate fully with the your cooperative. Membership – 487 new members were added to the cooperative's membership structure distributed as follows: UFPB Centro de Vivência Agency 63, Castelo Branco Agency: 92, UFCG Agency: 55, UEPB Agency: 28, Prata Agency: 84, Patos Agency: 110, Agency Jaguaribe: 55. With these associations, deaths, disaffiliations and exclusions, the membership ended the year with 8,779 members. 1. Administrative Actions: 1.1. Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly held on 04/16/2021; 1.2. Compliance with all obligations with the Sicredi System, with Sicredi Central North/Northeast, Central Bank of Brazil, Board of Trade, Federal Revenue, INSS, FGTS, SICAF, SIAPE and labor obligations; 1.3. Partial implementation of the Associate Relationship Center (CRM); 1.4. During the 2021 financial year, the Crisis Committee began to meet monthly to address issues related to the health of associates and employees. The Board of Directors reaffirmed with employees, the commitment to maintaining the employment and income of the entire team; 1.5. Approval by the Board of Directors of a proposed statutory change to expand the membership structure to be submitted to the Extraordinary General Assembly; 1.6. The cooperative acted strongly in combating the pandemic. Among the actions, we highlight the support for hospitals in the region that work on the front line in the fight against Covid-19, where PPE, wheelchairs and devices were donated of air conditioning. We also donate basic food baskets to needy families. Furthermore, we maintained all the sanitary measures implemented during the 2020 financial year, which enabled a safe and quality environment, without risks to the health of associates and employees; 1.7. The following administrative facts also stand out: immersion in Sicredi's administrative culture such as learning processes, procedures and products, encouraging the use of digital media (app Mobile Banking and WhatsApp Enterprise, Sicredi Subscription Portal, Pix, Sicredi Conecta, among others); provision of remote services and electronic signature of documents; granting credit; investment in term deposits through alternative channels and provision of emergency credit under more accessible conditions; 1.8. The cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. Below we list the main social businesses carried out in 2021: partnership with Sescoop to offer Board of Directors courses and 26 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Fiscal; encouraging the professional training of members and their dependents through partnerships with Senac, Sebrae and Senai; distribution of “Turma da Mônica” comic books on financial education; participation in the “Christmas + Solidarity” campaign, giving gifts to the elderly, children and needy people in the community; and sponsorship of events promoted by members, both scientific and social and charitable; 1.9. Monthly meetings of the Expansion and Marketing Committee with the participation of the Chairman of the Board, Executive Board and Agency Managers to evaluate the effectiveness of actions to expand Sicredi Creduni, as well as discuss, monitor and, if necessary, modify the strategies and the corresponding expansion and marketing actions that were implemented; 1.10. Excellent evaluation of the calculated Rating monthly by Central Sicredi N/NE, with the cooperative maintaining the IA risk level, with 22 points, the best score until October, when the Rating calculation was discontinued; 1.11. Carrying out a selection process using the Sicredi model to hire 4 employees; 1.12. Publication for the AGM of the 2021 Management Report and in the second quarter the Sicredi Creduni Informa newsletter; 1.13. Maintenance of the Institutional Website, WhatsApp Enterprise, Instagram and SMS to publicize the cooperative between members. 2. Training of Directors and Managers: 2.1. Management and Governance Axis Training (PDGC); 2.2. Prevention of Money Laundering Crime; 2.3. Operational Risk Management and Internal Controls; 2.4. Management Governance Process; 2.5. Default Management; 2.6. Managers' Action Plan; 2.7. Interpersonal Relationships and Conflict Management; 2.8. Management Development; 2.9. Risk Management in Financial Institutions; 2.10. Training for Controllers;2.11. Dynamics and Challenges of the Financial Market; 2.12. Company Visit Strategies; 2.13. Loan Portfolio Management. 3. Training Courses for Employees: 3.1. Training in Libras; 3.2. Training of Credit Union Managers; 3.3. Prevention of Money Laundering Crime; 3.4. Data Protection and Privacy; 3.5. LGPD for Persons in Charge and Responsible for the Process; 3.6. CPA 20 Preparatory; 3.7. CEA Preparatory; 3.8. Compliance; 3.9. Graphodocumentoscopy; 3.10. Innovation and Creativity; 3.11. Professional Behavior and Etiquette; 3.12. Approach to Sales through Neurolinguistics; 3.13. Financial Mathematics applied to the Use of HP12c; 3.14. Basic and Intermediate Excel; 3.15. Training on Life and Pension Products; 3.16. Training on Cards; 3.17. Training on Consortium; 3.18. Training on Acquiring; 3.19. Insurance Training; 3.20. Compag – Accounts Payable System; 3.21. Credit Collection and Recovery. 4. Training Courses for Boards: 4.1. Training for the Board of Directors; 4.2. Training for the Fiscal Council. 5. Encouraging the majority of members' financial transactions and diversiﬁcation in the offer of credit products, reducing dependence on consigned credit operations. 6. FATES Annual Report and Financial and Accounting Report. Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão President of the Board of AdministrationPlanning for 202227 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni The Action Plan for the 2022 Fiscal Year will continue the actions deﬁned in the previous fiscal year, considered permanent for the complete consolidation of Sicredi Creduni and those partially carried out, as well as the expansion of the association of Non-Finance Associations Profits and members of such associations. - Make all Sicredi ﬁnancial products and services available in order to achieve full operation of Sicredi Creduni associates; - Improve the quality of services provided to members through a continuing education program to train its staff, advisors and directors; - Expand the offer of pre-approved credit for advance holidays and 13th salary, using digital channels; - Encourage salary portability for state employees to encourage business with them, as they receive their salaries in financial institutions that purchased the state and UEPB payroll; - Offer lower interest rates on debt portability for members who bring all their operations to the cooperative, either by establishing a banking address in the cooperative or through salary portability; - Offer a family financial education program for members and their dependents; - Offer a cooperative education program for members and their dependents; - To offer courses for directors aimed at training staff for the cooperative; - Offer technical training and entrepreneurship courses for members and children of cooperative members in agreement with SENAI, SENAC and SEBRAE; - Continue implementing the strategy deﬁned in the Strategic Expansion Planning at UFPB, mainly in the teachers’ segment, after the inauguration of the Experience Center branch; - Expand the membership process for new members of selected public bodies in our Strategic Planning seeking to increase the ISA of these members by offering all available products; - Search for investor members to operate fully with the cooperative; - Continue encouraging all members to operate fully with the cooperative by offering better rates and/or participation in results proportional to their ISA; - Continue the search for strategic partnerships with trade union institutions, representative bodies of servers, charity funds, assistance funds and Municipal Pension Schemes; - Expand the offer of services for condominiums and associate condominium owners; - Gain new partners at UEPB, UFCG, UFPB and mainly on the various IFPB campuses; - Hold reception meetings for new members with a lecture on cooperativism and Sicredi Creduni; - Identify promising cities in Paraíba and the Northeast for opening agencies or business offices, seeking geographic deconcentration of operations; - Consolidate the financial service project for members through a relationship center (CRM) centralized at the administrative headquarters of Sicredi Creduni; - Consolidate the practice and develop the culture of budget management; - Consolidate the employee performance evaluation process; - Carry out research on Sicredi Creduni’s Organizational Climate; - Offer of solar energy financing; - Use of WhatsApp corporate for communication with members; - Carry out studies to implement the Sicredi União Faz a Vida and Crescer e Pertencer programs. Campina Grande, March 7, 2022 Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão Chairman of the Board of DirectorsFATES 2021 Annual Report The 2021 Ordinary General Assembly approved the Action Plan for the use of FATES in the 2021 Financial Year following Law 5,764/71, the Statute - to Social and the recommendations of the Internal Controls Committee of Central Sicredi NNE, allocating 30% of FATES resources to Technical Assistance, 40% to Educational Assistance and 30% to Social Assistance, also allowing flexibility in the use of resources through the relocation of a heading for another, if necessary, the use of the additional amount of R$ 60,000.00 (sixty thousand reais) for sponsorships and donations not covered by FATES and the following forecast of what was budgeted for activities - displaying next to what was predicted how much was spent: 1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: 1.1. Short courses and lectures. Audience: Members, dependents and collaborators. Expected value: R$ 42,297.27 Amount spent: R$ 1,800.00 1.2. Courses and training for managers, employees and interns. Examples of courses: Preparatory courses for CPA, MBA and training promoted by the Sicredi System. Audience: Employees and interns. Expected value: R$ 89,881.70 Amount spent: R$ 24,752.00 1.3. Short duration curses. In responsibility of partner institutions such as SENAI, SEBRAE and SESCOOP, aimed at generating income and professional training. Audience: Associates and dependents. Expected value: R$ 118,868.06 Amount spent: R$ 20,825.00 2. EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE: 2.1. Courses and training promoted by the Sicredi System and aimed at the management and supervision of Sicredi Creduni. Audience: Managers and employees. Expected value: R$ 126,891.81 Amount spent: R$ 4,250.00 2.2. Actions and activities aimed at implementing the Crescer, Pertencer and A União Faz a Vida Programs. Expected value: R$ 207,837.55 Amount spent: R$ 40,437.58 3. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE: 3.1. Sponsorships and donations. Expected value: R$ 50,135.00 Amount spent: R$ 15,200.00 3.2. Graphic and promotional material. Expected value: R$ 52,871.59 Amount spent: R$ 46,672.003.3. Get-togethers, holding AGMs, EGMs, preparatory meetings with delegates and sectional groups, end-of-year festivities and of commemorative dates associated with the cooperative membership. Expected value: R$ 52,871.59 Amount spent: R$ 45,143.47 3.4. Birthday Meeting: Estimated value: R$ 45,168.85 Amount spent: R$ - 3.5. Actions to combat Covid-19 Expected value: R$ 50,000.00 Amount spent: R$ 55,652.29 Total budgeted costs: R$ 836,823.42 Total amounts spent: R$ 254,732.34 Planned and not spent: R$ 582,091.08 Initial balance: R$ 1,224,862.28 Final balance: R$ 1,501,219.2728 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni The resources approved at the 2021 General Assembly were not used in their entirety due to the continuity of the Covid-19 pandemic, which prevented the cooperative from carrying out socio-cultural activities in person, such as the traditional Meeting of Birthdays, where in addition to the festive celebration, activities aimed at ﬁnancial and cooperative education of members and their dependents are carried out. In this way, for an expected expense of R$ 836,823.42 from FATES and another R$ 60,000.00 to sponsor events and donations not foreseen by FATES, R$ 254,732.34 was used funded by FATES and R$ 54,051.55 as sponsorship expenses. Among the actions carried out, the cooperative directed resources to combat the effects of Covid-19, involving the purchase of PPE equipment, wheelchairs, air conditioning units and donations of basic food baskets. FATES 2022 Action Plan The Board of Directors of Sicredi Creduni recommends the 2022 AGM to continue the social responsibility policy that represents a highlight of the cooperative, in particular sponsoring short-term courses for members and dependents aimed at generating income, access to the job market and overcoming deficiencies caused by restrictions on face-to-face activities and also by the economic crisis that restricted access to work. For 2022, it is recommended that sponsorships continue events of interest to members and bodies and institutions where it operates, as well as events to promote financial education and cooperativism, such as Birthday Meetings and also events aimed at welcoming and introducing new members to cooperativism . It is also recommended that the full use of the resources allocated to FATES by the 2021 AGM be continued, in the amount of R$ 531,089.33, allocating 30% of this resource to Technical Assistance, 40% to Educational Assistance and 30% for Social Assistance and which authorizes the flexibility to reallocate resources from one item to another, if necessary. 1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: 1.1. Short courses and lectures. Audience: Members, dependents and collaborators. Expected value: R$ 26,843.93 1.2. Courses and training for managers, employees and interns. Examples of courses: Preparatory courses for CPA, MBA and training promoted by the Sicredi System. Public: Employees and interns. Expected value: R$ 57,043.35 1.3. Short duration curses. Responsible for partner institutions such as SENAI, SEBRAE and SESCOOP, aimed at generating income and professional training. Audience: Associates and dependents. Estimated value: R$ 75,439.52 2. EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE: 2.1. Courses and training promoted by the Sicredi System and aimed at the management and supervision of Sicredi Creduni. Audience: Managers and employees. Value expected: R$ 80,531.79 2.2. Actions and activities aimed at implementing the Crescer, Pertencer and A União Faz a Vida Programs. Expected value: R$ 131,903.943. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE: 3.1. Sponsorships and donations. Expected value: R$ 31,818.14 3.2. Graphic and promotional material. Expected value: R$ 33,554.91 3.3. Fraternizations, holding AGMs, EGMs, preparatory meetings with delegates and sectional groups, end-of-year festivities and commemorative dates associated with the cooperative framework. Expected value: R$ 33,554.91 3.4. Birthday Meeting: Estimated value: R$ 28,666.38 3.5. Actions to combat Covid-19 Expected value: R$ 31,732.46 Total budgeted costs: R$ 531,089.33 Initial balance: R$ 1,501,219.27 Proposal from the Board of Directors of Sicredi Creduni approved for the AGM/ 2022, which proposes from one item to another, if necessary. Campina Grande, March 22, 202229 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Statements Financial Statements 2021 R$ 836,823.40 BALANCE SHEET (in thousands of reais) STATEMENT OF SURPLUS OR LOSSES (in thousands of reais) Income from Credit Operations Financial Income Revenue from Provision of Other Services Operating Revenues Total Revenues R$ 33,763 3,110 1,477 1,335 39,685 Expenses Funding Expenses Loan and Transfer Expenses Provision for Doubtful Credits Administrative Expenses Other Operating Expenses Total Expenses 2021 Result R$ 14,176 4,421 27,543 12,1426,773 1,227 946 DESTINATION OF LEFTOVERS (in thousands of reais) Destination of Surplus Year Result Interest on Capital (4.33%) FATES (5%) Legal Reserve (10 %). S Total Assets301,085 2,673 287,682 63,774 210,685 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CREDIT OPERATIONS 301,08513,223 PROVISIONS FOR EXPECTED LOSS ASSOCIATED WITH CREDIT RISK (3,987) OTHER ASSETS 173 12,765 US INVESTMENTS O 1,529 250 INTANGIBLEPASSIV O DEPOSITS Total Liabilities and Net Equity230,521 188,233 7,522 55Sight deposits Interbank deposits 180,656 Term deposits 301,085PROVISIONS FOR CIVIL, TAX AND LABOR RISKS8.21 4 OTHER STEPS 10,878 31,664 SHARE CAPITAL RESERVES OF ABOUT 29,871 9,029 SUBSTANCES OR LOSS ACCUMULATED ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 23,196 Loan obligations Other financial liabilities SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 70,56423,183 13302.8 18 1,693 289,494 79,678 199,685 302,81810,131 (3,699) 508 12,765 1,952 10531/12/2021 12/31/2020 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 224,395 196,253 7,002 - 189,251 302,8187,488 7,824 37,388 26,809 14,226 12,830 78,42312,817 13Financial Centralization Other financial assetsOpinion of the Independent Audit 1 Iguatemi Business Avenida Nilo Peçanha, 2.900 9th floor - Chácara das P edras 91.330-001- Porto Alegre - RS - Brazil Tel: +55 51 320 4-550 0 ey.com.br Independent auditor's report about the financial statements To the Administrators and Associates of Sicredi Creduni - Economy and Mutual Credit Cooperative of Servants of the Public Higher Education Institutions of the State of Paraíba and Other Institutions and Public Bodies in the State of Paraíba Paraíba LTDA Campina Grande / PB Opinião We examined the financial statements of Sicredi Creduni - Economic and Mutual Credit Cooperative of Public Higher Education Institutions of the State of Paraíba and Other Institutions and Public Bodies in the State of Paraíba LTD A (“C ooperativ a”), which comprises the balance sheet as of December 31, 2021, and the respective demonstrations of surpluses or losses, from the result of the scope, changes in net equity and financial cash flows for the year ending on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above adequately present, in all relevant aspects, the equity and financial position of Sicredi Cr eduni - C ooperativa de Econo mia e Crétido Mút uo dos Servadas Public Higher Education Institutes of the State of Paríba and Other Institutions and Public Bodies in the State of Para íba LTD A on December 31, 2021, the performance of their operations and their cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities, in accordance with Such standards are described in the following section, entitled “Auditor's responsibilities for auditing financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the evidence of The audit obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report The Cooperative's board of directors is responsible for this other information that comprises the Administration Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Management Report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on that report. In co In connection with the audit of financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Management Report and, in doing so, consider whether this report is, in a relevant way, 31 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni 2 inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially distorted. If, based on the work performed, we conclude that there is material misstatement and in the Management Report we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Management and governance responsibilities for financial statements The management is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of financial statements in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to authorized institutions operated by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and the internal controls that it determined as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. When preparing the financial statements, the board is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of financial statements unless that the board intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or does not have any realistic alternative to avoid the closure of operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for auditing the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements These, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, and issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any existing relevant distortions s. Distortions may be due to fraud or error and are considered relevant when, individually or together, they can influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users taken based on the aforementioned financial statements. As part of the audit carried out in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. In addition: We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement and financial statements, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, we plan and execute audit procedures in response to such risks, as well as obtain appropriate and sufficient audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, omission or representations false intentions. We obtained an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit in order to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's internal controls. Cooper activates .32 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni GROUP 1: Francisco Alves Batista GROUP 2: Manoel Freire de Oliveira Neto GROUP 3: Daniel Mendes Cavalcante GROUP 4: Carlos Alberto de Medeiros GROUP 5: Rosivaldo Dantas de Araújo GROUP 6: Robert Rice Brandt GROUP 7: João Arthur Brunet Monteiro GROUP 8: Israel Lourenço da Silva GROUP 9: Glageane da Silva Souza GROUP 10: Ricardo Schmidt Filho GROUP 11: Maria do Socorro Batista de Lima GROUP 12: Hélio dos Santos Xavier GROUP 13: Camilo Allyson Simões de Farias GROUP 14: Francisco de Assis Bezerra e Silva GROUP 15: Severina dos Santos Silva GROUP 16: Newton Martinho Eloi Ramalho GROUP 17: Ivan Ramos Cavalcanti GROUP 18: Marcelo Cavalcanti Rodrigues GROUP 19: Itania Kalenya Nunes Pereira GROUP 20: Antônio Carlos Bezerra Grilo GROUP 21: Manoel Isidro dos Santos Neto GROUP 22: Thales Spinelli Maximo Lins GROUP 23: Vagner Cesarino de Souza GROUP 24: Antônio Claudio da Silveira Alves GROUP 1: Pablo Henrique dos Santos Silva GROUP 2: Rochane Villarim de Almeida GROUP 3: Djaci Almeida de Queiroz GROUP 4: José Alberto da Nóbrega Simplício GROUP 5: Wilson Wouﬂan Silva GROUP 6: Alessandro Francisco dos Santos GROUP 7: - GROUP 8: - GROUP 9: - GROUP 10: - GROUP 11: Irurá Fernandes dos Santos GROUP 12: - GROUP 13: Kleberson Torres Nascimento GROUP 14: Amelia Ferreira Martins Limeira GROUP 15: Mario Enrique Silva do Nascimento GROUP 16: - GROUP 17 : Edson Franco de Moraes GROUP 18: Euridice Ferreira de Almeida GROUP 19: Leila Mara Gonçalves GROUP 20: Helder Alves de Oliveira GROUP 21: Clemente Ricardo Silva GROUP 22: Helena Soares de Souza GROUP 23: Carmen Lucia do Nascimento GROUP 24: Divanira Ferreira Maya 3 We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board. We conclude on the appropriateness of the use, by the board, of the operational continuity accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is relevant uncertainty in relation to events or conditions that may raise doubts. of significance in relation to the Cooperative's operational continuity capacity. If we conclude that there is material uncertainty, we should draw attention to it in our audit report to the respective disclosures in the financial statements or include a modification to our opinion, if the disclosures are inappropriate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer remain in operational continuity. Evaluate the general presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner compatible with the objective of adequate presentation. We communicate with those responsible for governance regarding, among other things, the scope and timing of planned audit work and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, March 7, 2022 ERNST & YOUNG Independent Auditors S.S. CRC – 2SP 015199/F -7 Améric o F. Ferreira Neto Contador CRC-1SP192685/O- 933 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Board Opinion Fiscal OPINION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL Campina Grande / Paraíba, March 7, 2022. As members of the Fiscal Council of Sicredi Creduni - Economic and Mutual Credit Cooperative of the Servants of Public Higher Education Institutions of the State of Paraíba and Other Public Institutions and Bodies in the State of Paraíba LTDA and in the exercise of legal and statutory powers, we examined the Administration Report and the Financial Statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses, Statement of Changes in Net Equity, Statement of Cash Flows, Explanatory Notes and others statements, and the respective audit report on the financial statements, these documents relating to the year ending December 31, 2021. According to the Governance policies adopted by the Cooperative and based on our examinations and In the independent auditors' audit report, issued by Ernst & Young Auditores Independentes S.S., we are in favor of approving the aforementioned statements. Sincerely, Álvaro Luís Pessoa de Farias Tânia Maria Correia Braga Mário Victor Beserra Vasconcelos 34 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni 35 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Count on Sicredi Creduni36 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Service Network HEADQUARTERS Campina Grande - PB Rua Antenor Navarro, 496, Prata CEP: 58400-520AG UFCG Campina Grande - PB Rua Aprígio Veloso, 882, Universitário CEP: 58429-900 AG UEPB Campina Grande - PB Rua Domitila Cabral de Castro, s/n, Universitário CEP: 58429-500AG PRATA Campina Grande - PB Rua Antenor Navarro, 571, Prata CEP: 58400-520 AG CASTELO BRANCO João Pessoa - PB Rua Hortêncio Ribeiro, 254, Castelo Branco CEP: 58050-220AG JAGUARIBE João Pessoa - PB Praça General João Neiva, 88c, Jaguaribe CEP: 58015-350 AG CENTRO DE VIVÊNCIA UFPB João Pessoa - PB Centro de Vivência UFPB, CEP: 58051-900 RELATIONSHIP CENTER (83) 4007 2654 (83 ) 2101 7000 0800 606 1700WHATSAPP ENTERPRISE (51) 3358 4770AG PATOS Patos - PB Rua Escritor Rui Barbosa, 412, Centro CEP: 58700-060 37 Annual Report 2021 Sicr edi Creduni Products and Services WHATSAPP ENTERPRISEFor you ChannelsFor your company Current Account Loans Financing Financial Applications Investment Funds Savings Credit and Debit Card Credit and Salary Portability Overdraft Checkbook Insurance Consortiums Pensions Exchange Payments and Receipts 13th month advance salary, vacation and income tax Solar Energy FinancingCurrent Account Billing Cards Exchange Anticipation of Receivables from Consortium Cards Insurance Credit Home Banking Investments Payment and Suppliers Payment and Receipts Internet ATM Application Banking Service by Telephone onesicredi.com.br/creduni @sicredicredunipb (51) 3358 4770 Sicredi Creduni