ANNUAL REPORT COOPERATIVA SICREDI CREDUNI 2022Sicr edi Creduni TIMELINE Chairman of the Board of Directors Paulo Ortiz Rocha de AragãoGeneral CoordinationRômulo Marinho do RêgoMESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ......................... .................................... 03 120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM .......... ....................................... 04 05 » ........ .................................................... .....................2 06 08» .................................................... .....................................120 years of Sicredi Timeline » ..... .................................................... .... 7 Principles of Cooperativism 10 » ........................................ .................... Our Cooperative Essence OUR COOPERATIVE SICREDI CREDUNI .................... ......... 11 » ....................................... ............................................... 13 14 » .................................................... ........................... Highlights in 2022 16 » .................. .................................................... ..... Digital Transformation 17 » .............................................. .................................... Physical ServiceRegional Operation SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ........ ................................ 18 » ................ ............................... ................... .................. ..................................18 21 »Commitment to the global compact and the SDGsOur Sustainability Strategy RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM 22 » ............................................... ................... 23 25 » ............................ .................................................... ......................... Day C 26 » ..................... .................................................... ............ Christmas + Solidarity 27 » .................................................... .................... Participation in EventsHow We Make a Difference » .................................... .................................................... ........................... 28 30 » .................... ........................................ Our Governance Model 31 » .... .................................. Promote the Development of PeopleNews ........... .................................................... .................................................... ................RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS 32 » 37 Investor Remuneration ACCOUNTABILITY 38 » ».................... .................................................... ... 39 40 ............................................. .................... Financial Statements 41 » .......................... ......................... Independent Audit Opinion 44 » ................... .............................................. Opinion of Supervisory BoardFinancial Results.................................................. ................... SERVICE NETWORK 46 ........................... ............................... PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 47 ..... .................................................... .............Summary Executive Director Rômulo Marinho do Rêgo Director of OperationsOtávio Santiago MouraEditing and LayoutAnne Caroline de Oliveira Pereira(DRT-PB 3888) sicredi.com.br/creduni Paulo Or tiz Rocha de Ar agão President of the Board of DirectorsWe are, once again, celebrating the achievements of a very challenging exercise in which Creduni overcame difficulties, through intelligent strategies, obtained significant results, considering the adverse macroeconomic environment in which we operate. Even with important losses, we overcome adversity and become stronger and more harmonious. Once again Creduni shows the power of cooperation represented by an engaged team and cohesive person who knows how to respond to challenges, seeking inspiration and creative solutions from them to transform them into opportunities. Several actions were implemented that have already produced tangible results, which have already had the desired effects, and which will spread, foreshadowing a promising future. The results obtained are already adding value to members. We continue to invest in relationships with members and obtain growth from those who started to operate fully with the cooperative and This is evidenced in the growth of the Solutions Index per Associate (ISA), in Principality and in the Net Promoter Scores (NPS) survey. We have grown in remote service within our physical strategy, which already serves members throughout Paraíba through the expansion of the Relationship Center located at Creduni's administrative headquarters. This contributes to the consolidation of the cooperative's operations in its area of ​​activity. We continue to encourage employee training to better serve members and this has been revealed in the achievement of goals for a significant number of products that are now consumed by members and which has diversified the cooperative's sources of revenue, previously centered almost exclusively on payroll loans. in January 2022, which made membership conditions more flexible, produced significant results that grow significantly each month. In 2022 we surpassed 930 new members, of which more than 240 are legal entities that operate with the cooperative, this being a record number of new members. We continue to invest in social actions, demonstrating, in practice, what differentiates us, as a cooperative, from commercial financial institutions. We believe that we are on the best path to guarantee the continuity of the Cooperative, always seeking the best experience for members. We would like to thank the support received from the founding partners, delegates, administration and tax and associates, who are our reason for being. Together we are stronger. Message from the President3 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Summary 4 120 years of Cooperative Sicr edi Creduni 120 years of Sicr edi In 2022, Sicredi completed 120 years of history. A journey that was closely connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for members and communities where we are present. Our origin happened with the foundation of the first Brazilian Credit Cooperative, in 1902, by the Jesuit priest Theodor Amstad and a group of German immigrants, small owners and rural workers from Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul. Theodor Amstad was born in Switzerland, in 1851. From a young age, he dedicated himself to community activities in Germany, England and the Netherlands, learning about the importance of cooperative actions for the development of local workers. In Nova Petrópolis (RS), the priest joined 20 local associates and, together, they put this collective vision into practice to build a better future. They started a cooperative venture that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country, in addition to the first Central bringing together Cooperatives, in the first decades of the 20th century. Over the years, the model was taken forward, overcame the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside it reached the cities, maintaining through time the purpose of adding income through investments and shared resources, with equal participation and benefits for all associates and promoting quality of life. Cooperativism:5 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni “As of 2016, Sicredi Creduni became part of the Sicredi System and contributed to the construction of this successful Brazilian cooperative history promoted by Sicredi. Created 24 years ago, on April 6, 1999, with the same purpose as pioneers of Brazilian cooperativism to create an alternative, through cooperation and union of efforts, that would provide a fairer economic and social model. It has contributed to financial and cooperative education, job and income generation and sustainable local development.” Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão Chairman of the Board of Directors Discover some relevant historical facts about our history. 1902 Establishment of the first credit cooperative of Latin America, in Nova Petrópolis/RS, currently Sicredi Pioneer in RS.1964 Reformulation of the National Financial System Law no. 4,595/64, which imposed normative restrictions on the operation of credit cooperatives.1971 Sanctioned by Law no. 5,764/71 that the regime and legality of cooperative societies. 1988 New Federal Constitution establishes favorable regulatory conditions for credit cooperatives. The promulgation of the 1988 Constitution represented, for credit cooperation, the possibility of achieving the operational autonomy desired since the origins of the movement in Brazil. 1995 Constitution of Bansic redi, the first private active cooperative bank in Brazil, responsible for establishing active cooperative autonomy and allow access to the market for special Timeline6 programs 120 years of Cooperativism Sicr edi Creduni https://www .sicredi.com.br /trajetoria/ 2008 Constitution of Sicredi Participaç ions - SicrediP ar. 2018 Completion of the migration process of cooperatives and Central Sicredi North/Northeast. Migration became a milestone in our history not only because of the expansion itself, but also because of the way it was developed, based on systemic integration 2022 Sicredi celebrates 120 years of history in credit cooperatives.2020 Sicredi becomes Member of the UN Global Compact. Find out more about our history in the publication A Trajetória do Sicr edi: 7 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni from different cultures.1 Free and voluntary membership Cooperatives are voluntary organizations, open to all people. While other examples close agreements with large companies to offer a salary account on a mandatory basis for their employees, in a credit union membership happens differently. After the presentation on how cooperativism works, each person can choose freely join or not. 6 Intercooperation Cooperatives work together to strengthen the cooperative movement. Sicredi is a living example of this, built by the union of several cooperatives, which grow together in a win-win model, bringing prosperity to its members.2 Democratic management All members have the same power to vote, with the same weight in the assemblies. This way, everyone decides together the direction of the cooperative, to deal with issues such as leadership selection, remuneration or even the amounts invested in social programs. 8 120 years of Cooperative Sicr edi Creduni THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES OF COOP ERATIVISM Which were born with the Pioneers of Rochdale and which govern cooperatives around the world, have been reformulated over the years to meet social demands s of each epoch. Its last update was carried out by the ACI (International Cooperation Alliance) in 1995. Sicr edi, they direct and support us in generating positive impact: 7Interest in the community Credit cooperatives can be inserted in regions with diverse opportunities for social improvements, where traditional financial institutions do not see the possibility of profit. In this way, each financial product or service that members purchase from the cooperative brings a result to the community, generating income, jobs and growth in the region. 5 Education, training and information A education, training and information for associates is the most solid way to generate prosperity. Based on this principle, cooperatives promote various education programs in the communities where they are present. Examples of this action are the School Cooperative Program, the A União Faz a Vida Program, the Grow and Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, which form cooperative citizens who engage in the development of your region.3 Participation economic of members Members participate in the economic result of the cooperative, that is, the result of operations generated by the money invested by members returns to their pockets, as decided democratically in the assemblies. 4 Autonomy and independence The cooperative is totally autonomous and independent in its decisions, and can only be controlled by its members, in a democratic management model. THE PIONEERS OF ROCHDALE Modern cooperative activism emerged in the 19th century, in England, with a group of workers who sought to improve their lives and collective prosperity, within a context of advancing Industrial Revolution in the country . This scenario brought devastating social impacts to the urban population, such as hunger, poverty, long working hours and child labor. to buy food and essential items, of quality and at fair prices, in 1844, 28 weavers and Other craftsmen got together and founded the Society of Pioneers of R ochdal e (Rochdal e Quitabl e Pioneers Societ y Limited). Together, they created an alternative that, through cooperation and joint efforts, provided a fairer economic and social model. Each of the associates contributed one pound, an initial investment that helped open the doors of a cooperative warehouse, starting a business completely outside the standards of the time, without employees and bosses, where responsibilities and results were divided equally. R ochdal's pioneers marked the history of C ooper activism by understanding what values ​​and principles are necessary for a business to grow and maintain its purpose over the years, generating revenue alue to everyone involved. 9 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni cooperative VIRTUOUS CYCLE OF COOPERATIVISM By exercising our active role of Associates, acting as owners of the business, we make the cooperative active and prosperous. While some invest and save, others use this amount in the form of credit to realize their dreams, buy, produce and undertake. In this way, money circulates, moves the local economy and becomes a source of jobs, products and services, income generation and more opportunities. FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS Our business model creates a virtuous cycle that is it encourages investment in the cooperative that promotes members' businesses, the growth of the community and the development of people in the region. Furthermore, through our activities we have a positive impact beyond our associates, also improving living conditions in communities. Thus, they can say that it is a model for generating differentiated value, having at its roots the DNA of sustainability. A phrase by Father Theodor Ams tad, precursor of cooperation activism of credit in Brazil, summarizes this view: As you can see, solidarity and responsibility towards society — two of the fundamental values ​​of cooperation — were already present from the earliest days of the movement in Brazil. We are very proud of the path we have taken and the trajectory we have built over these years. Knowing our history inspires us to continue taking new steps and generating impact for society, through the essence of cooperation activism. “Not just working for myself, but for others or for the common good.” Our essence10 Essência Cooperative Sicr edi Creduni MissionFounded in 1999 by UFPB employees, Sicredi Creduni has a history of success contributing to the economic and financial well-being of its members and families, as well as to the development of the community where it operates. Offers all services and financial products through quality personalized service, within ethical principles and values ​​based on respect for the member, owner and user of the cooperative. In 2016 we joined Sicredi, a nationwide system, with specialized companies and financial instruments that safely provide a large number of products and services suited to the reality of our members and that increase security and strengthen our local operations. We are a Cooperative Financial Institution with 9,388 members, 63 employees and 7 agencies. Present throughout Paraíba, and physically in the city of Campina Grande, where the Administrative Headquarters and the Prata, UFCG, UEPB agencies operate; in João Pessoa with the agencies Castelo Branco, Centro de Vivência UFPB and Jaguaribe and in Patos with Agência Patos, in addition to services through relationship channels, Corporate WhatsApp and Relationship Center, in all cities in the state. We form part of 14 other sister cooperatives, the Cooperativa Central Sicredi Nordeste, headquartered in João Pessoa-PB, one of the 5 central cooperatives that make up the Sicredi Confederation, based in Porto Alegre/RS. Contribute to the well-being of members through education, guidance and economic-financial solutions. Vision To be the main financial institution for employees of public institutions and bodies in the state of Paraíba. Our Cooperative11 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Sicredi Creduni Values ​​Ethics; Transparency; Integrity; Equity; Solidarity; Professionalism; Credibility; Sustainability. PURPOSE OF Sicr edi C reduni Sicr edi 9,388 associates 63 employees R$306.2 million in assets R$63.9 million in net equity R$215.5 million balance in credit portfolio6.5 million + 35 thousand employees R$ 267.2 billion in assets R$ 30.8 billion in net equity R$ 162.1 billion balance in associated credit portfolio Data: December 2022 Build a more prosperous society together. Our Cooperative12 Our Cooperative Sicr edi Creduni Sicredi CreduniPresent throughout PARAÍBA AGENCIES INSTALLEDPHYSICAL SERVICE CAMPINA GRANDE. Administrative Headquarters. Ag UFCG . Ag UEPB . Ag Silver. Ag UFPB Experience Center. Ag Patos . Ag Castelo Branco . Ag JaguaribeJOÃO PESSOA PATOSCAMPINA GRANDEJOÃO PESSOAPATOS Operation 13 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Regional Through Physital ServiceTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY DIGIT AL ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY DIGIT AL Highlights 14 Highlights in 2022 Sicredi Creduni On January 27th, Sicredi Creduni held its Extraordinary General Meeting (AGE) digitally, through the Digital Assembly Platform. The AGE aimed to propose a broad reform of the Bylaws, adapting it to Sicredi's systemic model and expanding the membership status at Sicredi Creduni. All adjustments were approved. On March 30th, Sicredi Creduni held its General Assembly digitally Ordinary Meeting (AGO), through the Digital Assembly and Beevoter Platforms. On that occasion, there was the rendering of accounts, the election of a new Fiscal Council and the Board of Directors, where Chapa Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão was re-elected to the Board of Directors. It also carried out the deliberation on the allocation of the results achieved, as well as the planning for 2022. The results (surplus) calculated in the 2021 financial year reaffirmed for the member borrowers the benefit of receiving part TRANSMISSION VOTING CONFIRMATION On the scheduled day and time, the live broadcast will take place. Delegates discuss and vote on agendas using the tool itself. Delegates end their participation by confirming their vote. REGISTRATION NOTICE Associates register on the tool. We publish the Call Notice for Sectional Delegates, as well as interested members. CHECK OUT HOW SICREDI CREDUNI VIRTUAL MEETINGS OCCUR Interest paid on loans and for investing members to receive an excellent return on your financial investments, through interest received during the year and the distribution of surplus. CHECK OUT THE MAIN EVENTS THROUGHOUT THE YEAR: Chairman of the Board of Directors leading the digital AGM in 2022President and of the Board of Directors: Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão Vice-president of the Board of Directors: José Benjamim Pereira Filho Advisor to Members: Antônio Guedes R angel Júnior Chat eaubriand Pint o Bandeir to Júnior Jadel son R odrigues Chagas João Marcelo Alves Mac êdo Maria T eresa Nasciment o Sil va Marcos Mesquita da Sil va Ricardo José de Medeir os e Silva 15 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni TAKE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS On the 28th of June he took office in a semi-presential manner the Board of Directors of Sicredi Creduni, elected at the 2022 AGM. The new directors, after approval by the Central Bank of Brazil, are serving a four-year mandate (2022-2025). The ceremony was attended by regional directors and managers. INSURANCE OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL On June 28th, Sicredi Creduni's Fiscal Council took office, elected at the 2022 AGM for a one-year term. The new advisors, after approval by the Central Bank of Brazil, were sworn in by the President of the Board of Directors, Prof. Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão, in a semi-presential ceremony, which was attended by regional directors and managers. The 2022 Fiscal Council was headed by: Álvaro Luís P. de Farias (Board Coordinator), Roberto Vilmar Satur and Tânia Maria C. Braga, and as alternate member Mariene Braz Barros Cavalcante. Meet the Sicredi Creduni Board of Directors: 16 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Digital Transformation Sicredi Creduni Relationship Center 17 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni “Digital transformation provides improvement in performance and optimization of processes through technology, in addition to promote new business opportunities generating greater efficiency and agility in service.” André Ribeiro Ferreira Agency ManagerDIGITAL TRANSFORMATION In 2022, Sicredi Creduni advanced in Digital Transformation. With the aim of providing a physical experience, with the aim of offering members access to the best of both worlds: the physical and the digital. This process allows times WHATSAPP ENTERPRISE The WhatsApp Enterprise tool allows for more agility and efficiency in service. With it, in a secure way, the member sends messages via number (51) 3358 4770 to Theo (virtual assistant) or to speak to one of our consultants and in a practical way, clarify doubts about products and services, resolve demands, as well how you send suggestions, compliments and complaints. It also offers the option of service in pounds via video call with the aim of promoting the inclusion of people with hearing impairment, facilitating service and optimizing access to services. In 2022, there were more than 10,700 consultations, both through Theo and through human assistance, with a satisfaction level of 90.7%. This tool allowed Sicredi Creduni to get even closer to its members who are in more than 170 municipalities in Paraíba and in other states and countries. technologies support the construction of a new experience for members, but always keeping people as protagonists of these changes. 18 Sustainability Strategy Sicr edi Creduni Our Sustainability Strategy At Sicredi, we operate in line with the main global concepts regarding Sustainable Development, generating value for our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our incorporation we have kept a close eye on our impacts. This concern was materialized in a robust sustainability strategy, which incorporates the best management on the topic and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. The expression ESG (environmental, social and governance) seeks to demonstrate that the long-term survival of organizations depends on them also generating value in these three aspects. Our strategy incorporates the market’s “ESG vision”, understanding it as the management itself for business sustainability. Sicredi’s three essential strategic guidelines, which direct everything what we do: Mission, Vision and Values: describe the guidelines that guide our business and guide our development in practice. Based on our guidelines, we build the systemic documents and policies that guide our strategy, decision-making, operations and conduct. The Sustainability Policy establishes the principles and guidelines that guide decision-making in all areas of the business and in the relationship with interested parties, with the aim of expanding the our positive impact and reduce our adverse impact. To guide our sustainable development strategy, we have established our sustainability drivers and focal themes. We have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes, which are the themes Strengthen our model of Spreading cooperativism and sustainability Promote inclusion and diversity GovernanceRelationships and Cooperation Strengthen our business model in a sustainable way Local development Promote positive transformations in the locations where we are present Responsible solutions Operate in a sustainable manner Promote economic, social and environmental education Ensure integrated risk management Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management Promote the local economy Promote development of people Contribute to the development of communities 19 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni BUILD A SOCIETY TOGETHER MORE PROSPEROUS Sustainability DriversGovernance Sustainability CommitteeSustainable Development Reference Instrument »Relationship and Cooperation activism »Local development »Responsible solutions »Social »Economic »Environmental »Governance Sustainability PillarsTo direct our Sustainability Strategy and support us in the evolution of sustainability guidelines, we rely on the Sustainable Development Framework. O Benchmark is the basis for Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, providing indicators that allow us to measure our sustainability performance at national, regional and local levels. Monitoring these results can help us identify points where we have the opportunity to advance the Sustainability agenda. 20 Sustainability Strategy Sicr edi Creduni 21 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Commitment to the Global Compact and the SDGs Our sustainability strategy Sustainability is reinforced through our external commitments, which connect our guidelines on the topic to the main global initiatives in the sustainable development agenda. Since 2020, we have been members of the Global Compact, a voluntary action of the United Nations (UN), which provides principles, guidelines, information and tools to promote Sustainable Development and Citizenship. By joining the Global Compact we also assume the responsibility of contributing to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, outlined by the UN to engage organizations in goals such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources by 2030. From this perspective, Sicredi Creduni created the Sustainability Committee in 2022 to monitor the sustainability drivers and focal themes of Sicredi Creduni and contribute locally to the Sicredi System initiative. 22 Relationships and Cooperativism Sicr edi Creduni Relationships and Cooperativism 23 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni How we make a difference DONATION “DONATE LOVE” SOCIAL CAMPAIGN Sicredi Creduni donated 50 wool blankets to the “Donate Love” Social Campaign, promoted by the Disciples of Jesus Group. The donation met the request of associate Cacilda Medeiros Bandeira and was intended for the community assisted by the institution. DONATION ELPÍDIO DE ALMEIDA HEALTH INSTITUTE Sicredi Creduni made the donation in Campina Large air conditioning unit for the Transfusion Agency sector of ISEA - Instituto de Saúde Elpídio de Almeida. The donation met the request of the Transfusion Agency Coordinator, Aline da Rocha Bezerra. DONATION OF TOYS FOR CHILDREN'S PARTY PROMOTED BY THE MILITARY POLICE Sicredi Creduni donated toys for distribution at the Children's Day party, promoted by the Military Police, in the city of Cuité/PB. The donation met the request by the Commander of the 9th BPM Dinamérico Gomes Júnior. 24 How we make a difference Sicr edi Creduni How we make a difference DONATION FOOD AID MOVEMENT Sicredi Creduni donated 60 basic food baskets to the Pastoral da Alimentação (Food Aid Movement) of the Diocesan Seminary Parish, in Campina Grande. The donation responded to the request of associate Jocélio Loureiro Celino and was intended for needy families registered in the project, which has benefited the community for 37 years. community. DONATION TO SOCIAL CAMPAIGN “LOVE WITH BEANS, FOOD FOR THE HEART” Sicredi Creduni donated 60 basic food baskets to the Social Campaign “Love with beans, food for the heart”. The donation responded to the request of associate Cacilda de Medeiros Bandeira and was intended for needy families in Campina Grande. DONATION LAR DA SAGRADA FACE Sicredi Creduni donated cleaning material to Lar da Sagrada Face, an association that offers support to the elderly from Lagoa Drought/PB. The donation met the request of associate Ana Lúcia Lima Sousa. 25 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni C Day Cooperation Day (C Day) celebrates the International Day of Cooperatives, is a national initiative of the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) that expresses the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. To celebrate this date, Sicredi Creduni launched a challenge for members and employees to collect basic food baskets. Together, We collected more than 2 tons of food, which were destined for institutions supporting cancer patients in Campina Grande, João Pessoa and Patos. In Campina Grande: Paraíba Institute to Combat Cancer (IPCCAN) and Casa de Acolhida Maria Rosa Mística; In João Pessoa: Casa da Criança com Câncer; In Patos: Cancer Support Group: Amigas Viva a Vida. 26 How we make a difference Sicr edi Creduni Natal + Solidário With the cooperation of associates and collaborators, Sicredi Creduni delivered the gifts for the Christmas + Solidarity Campaign at APAE - Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional of Campina Grande, João Pessoa and Patos. In total, around 500 users of the institution benefited from boxes of chocolate and panettone. In addition to APAE, 200 children from Creche Municipal Isabele Barbosa da Silva, located in Campina Grande, also received boxes of chocolate as gifts. APAE CAMPINA GRANDE APAE CAMPINA GRANDE APAE JOÃO PESSOA APAE PATOS MUNICIPAL CRECHE ISABELE BARBOSA DA SILVA MUNICIPAL CRECHE ISABELE BARBOSA DA SILVA 27 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Participation in Events In 2022, Sicredi Creduni was present with a stand at fairs and exhibitions to promote its products and services. In Campina Grande he was present at the Syndics Meeting, ExpoPão and Agrotec. Already in Princesa Isabel, he was present at ExpoPrincesa. On the occasion, various gifts and raffles were distributed. Check out: ENCOUNTER OF SYNDICS MEETING OF SYNDICS EXPOPÃO EXPOPÃO AGROTEC EXPOPRINCESA With the aim of assisting in financial organization and income generation, Sicredi Creduni encourages the professional training of its associates and dependents, offering free courses in partnership with SENAC, SENAI and SEBRAE. In 2022, members participated in more than 100 28 News Sicr edi Creduni News BASIC INCOME TAX COURSE To contribute to financial education and assist in the process of filling out the Income Tax declaration, Sicredi Creduni promoted the series “Simplifying Income Tax with Sicredi Creduni” in March and April. With the aim of clarifying doubts, the series offered to PEDAL COOPERATIVO On March 19th, Sicredi Creduni was present at Pedal Cooperativo in João Pessoa. An initiative of the OCB/PB System in partnership with Sicredi Creduni and other cooperatives. The event resulted in the donation of approximately one ton of food. associates, dependents and interested public an online course held on 17/03 with Professor João Marcelo Alves Macedo, PhD in Accounting Sciences, two lives on Instagram held on 14/03 and 18/05 and publications on this social network with tips on declaring the IRPF. PHOTOGRAPHIC COMPETITION Member Leandro Ferreira S. Nunes Pereira had his photo selected in 2nd place, among the first placed in the “Regionality and Local Culture” Photographic Competition. He was awarded a Dell Inspiron notebook and its photo is present in our 2023 Calendar. COURSES FOR MEMBERS AND DEPENDENTS courses. Access the websites of these partner institutions, check available courses and contact your agency. 29 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni FIRE BRIGADE TRAINING FOR EMPLOYEES To keep employees increasingly qualified, Sicredi Creduni promoted fire brigade training for employees, thus being in compliance with NR 23 and NBR 14276. PRESENTIAL MEETING WITH SECTIONAL DELEGATES On the 27th and 28th of October, Sicredi Creduni promoted meetings in Campina Grande and João Pessoa, respectively. REFER AND GAIN CAMPAIGN Sicredi Creduni launched the Refer and Earn Campaign to encourage members to be multipliers. By nominating and signing up one or more members, the multiplier received gifts, such as pens, keychains, squeeze bottles, thermal bags and backpacks. with new Sectional Delegates for accountability for the 1st half of 2022. Our model 30 Our Sicredi Creduni Governance Model Governance Sicredi Creduni Organization Chart At Sicredi Creduni, our associates have an active participation in the management of the business. Every four years, members, divided into 24 sectional groups, elect Sectional Delegates to represent and defend their interests at the Ordinary General Assembly. Furthermore, the Delegates elect the members of the Board of Directors, the body responsible for managing the Cooperative and appointing the Executive Board. Executive Board The Executive Board is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the executive management of the business. Rômulo Marinho do Rêgo Executive DirectorOtávio Santiago Moura Director of Operations Board of Directors (2018-2021) Fiscal Council (2021) Paulo Ortiz Rocha de Aragão President José Benjamim Pereira Filho Vice-PresidentEffective: Álvaro Luís Pessoa de Farias (Board Coordinator)Roberto Vilmar SaturTânia Maria Correia Braga Mariene Braz Barros Cavalcante Board Members: Antônio Guedes Rangel Júnior Chateaubriand P. B. Júnior Jadelson Rodrigues Chagas João Marcelo Alves MacêdoSubstitutes: Maria Teresa Nascimento SilvaMarcos Mesquita da Silva Ricardo José de Medeiros and Silva Promote development 31 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni of people Our employees are part of the communities where we act and, at the same time, are responsible for close and human relationships. By investing in your education and training, we strengthen the The ranking is published annually and rewards the best companies to work for at a national, regional, sectoral and thematic level. In 2022, we achieved the result (EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION index Information classification: Internal Use We were awarded fourth place as the best company to work for in the “Institutions” category Financeiras Cooperativas de Crédito” by GPTW (Great Place to Work). local development both by improving our ability to meet local demands and by strengthening the human capital of the region. confidence) of 89%. The research involved the participation of 29 thousand Sicredi employees, who contributed their perception of what it is like to work at the institution. 32 Relationships and Cooperativism Sicr edi Creduni Responsible Solutions 33 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni SolutionsSolar Energy Financing Vehicle FinancingSicredi Creduni finances your project, acquisition and installation of equipment for solar energy production under special conditions. This product is aimed at members interested in using alternative and renewable energy sources, saving on their electricity bills and reducing the impact on the environment. Sicredi Creduni finances the acquisition of new and used vehicles, national or imported. See some Benefits: EASE: Pay the financing in installments without compromising your budget and according to your needs. . CONVENIENCE: The value of the installments is debited directly from your account, facilitating your payment schedule. . PEACE OF MIND: Plan your financial life better, with a period of up to five years to pay the financing. . SECURITY: The credit limit is available according to the payment capacity of each member and the manufacturing time of the product. vehicle. See some benefits: . Quick credit analysis; . 100% financing of the project, with no down payment; 90-day grace period to pay the 1st installment; . Reduction of up to 95% on your electricity bill; Financing of the amount with a payment term of up to 60 months. Auto Crédito Consortiums With the support of Sicredi Creduni, you can carry out your projects in a cooperative and safe way. Program your future with the plan that best suits your needs and be part of a value chain that benefits the member, the cooperative and the local community. Check out the options available to you: . Services Consortium. Sustainable Consortium. Real Estate Consortium. Truck, Tractor and Utility Consortium. Automobile, Motorcycle and Nautical Consortium. Custom Furniture Consortium. Drone ConsortiumWith this line of credit you meet your resource needs and use your car as collateral for the operation. Check out the benefits: . Flexibility: A Payment method can be in installments or in a single payment, chosen according to your needs, and you also have a term of up to 72 months. . Convenience: Payment is automatically debited from your current account. . Security: To cooperate responsibly, the credit limit is available according to the member's payment capacity. 34 Annual Report 2022 Sicredi Creduni Working Capital Sicredi Creduni has a line of credit to support the flow of your business, ensuring financing of the operational cycle and covering expenses such as the purchase of raw materials, payment of taxes, charges, suppliers and payroll. See some benefits: . Peace of mind: payment can be made in up to 72 months, with the 1st installment made within 180 days, according to business needs. Security: to cooperate responsibly, the credit limit is available according to the company's income .. Allowed guarantees: guarantee, fiduciary alienation and mortgage. Salary Portability Banking Domicile Port your salary to Sicredi Creduni at no cost or change your banking domicile at your institution. With salary portability, you can choose Sicredi to receive payments into your checking account or savings account, at no additional cost. In your cooperative you have many more benefits. Discover the advantages: . Current account with optional service package. Participation in results (leftovers) of the cooperative*. Special Check with the best rate on the market. Operating the Current Account with Debit Card and Checkbook. Advance of Income Tax Refund. Salary advance (13th month advance, Vacations) . Checkbook . Personal Credit *The movement of the Current Account generates benefits and increases your participation in the distribution of results (surplus). 35 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni At Sicredi Creduni, the credit card had a signiﬁcant increase in adherence. In addition to the benefits offered by Sicredi Creduni, this product has great acceptance among members and has become one of the best on the market due to its participation in the results Find out a little about the benefits of this product: . Purchases and withdrawals in Brazil and abroad; . Purchases online with a virtual card; Possibility of additional card; Return of the annual fee; Cashback benefits. Up to 40 days to pay. Installment of shopping . Participation in results (leftovers). Sicredi Platinum Card Ideal for those who frequently travel internationally and value special programs and benefits, as well as high-quality services. . Sicredi Gold Card For those looking for a card with a higher credit limit, value reward programs and need insurance and assistance for their purchases. . Sicredi Black Card For those who value unique experiences, new opportunities, rewards program that uses Accumulated points such as discounts (cashback), refund of the annual fee, being international and offering excellent assistance on the Sicredi App and Internet Banking. ities, enjoys good restaurants and travels frequently in Brazil and abroad. . Sicredi Internacional Card Perfect for those who need a basic card for their daily lives, with credit and debit functions. . Sicredi Debit Card Tailor-made for those who value practicality and security when making purchases day-to-day activities or making withdrawals. Acquiring Cards (Sicredi machine) Adaptable to your business, our machine offers solutions and tools that help in the efficient management of cash flow and also accepts the main brands. Check out the main features available: . Receive within 2 days; . Entered sale and payment link; . Recurring sale; . Receive with Pix. Anticipation of Receivables; . Cell phone recharge; . Pre-authorization;. Contactless payment* *Only for Wireless POS. . And much more! You can count on our close and specialized service to choose the option that best suits your profile. Practical, agile and safe 36 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni SAVINGS: For those who like tradition, low risk and security. INVESTMENT FUNDS: For those looking for profitability and want to have diversification. FIXED INCOME: For those who want predictability, guarantees and attractive rates. PENSION PENSION: For those who want to guarantee a safe and secure future quiet. The security of our members' investments is attested by the main credit risk rating agencies in the world, which guaranteed Sicredi the following ratings on a national scale: And it also has the following guarantees: 1) Efficient management and committed to good results social and economic-financial; 2) Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop) which guarantees up to 250 thousand reais in deposits;3) Solidarity Guarantee of the Sicredi System;4) Maintenance of good results by the Equalization Fund;5) Solidity of quality capital represented by the Contingency Fund, by Legal Reserve resources and by the Equalization Fund, which place Sicredi Creduni in a prominent position among other credit cooperatives in the north and northeast.At Sicredi Creduni, the investor member has access to several investment options for all their objectives. Fitch Ratings: AA Moody’s: AA1 Standard & Poor’s: AAA Sicredi Asset Management: FORTEInvest with Sicredi Creduni. 37 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni At Sicredi Creduni, the investor member has access to several investment options for all their objectives. INVESTOR REMUNERATION INDICATOR/YEAR 2020 INTEREST ON CDI INTEREST ON TOTAL LEFTOVER CAPITAL 2021 2022 3,860,789.29 6,477. 490.43 16,843,052.00 1,090,879.56 1,520,306.30 3,868,762.99 16,727,438.56 10,621,786.57 6,290,294.46 21,679,107.41 18,619.5 83.30 27,002. 109.45 The remuneration of the investing associate It is made up of three variables, which are interest on Social Capital, CDI Interest and Surplus. The graph and table above show the behavior of these three variables over the last three years. This analysis is important because it highlights the direct influence of the variation in the SELIC rate on the surpluses of our cooperative and consequently on the composition of the remuneration for the investor of the products that receive surpluses. Therefore, in years of low SELIC, such as 2020 and 2021, investors receive less interest and more surpluses, in years with higher SELIC, such as 2022, investors receive more interest and less surpluses. The table also presents the sum of the three variables per year, with it, it is possible to see that the result in 2021 is lower the other two years and this is because it was the second year of the pandemic when the cooperative was most ﬁnancially impacted by its effects, due to low activity and low growth. However, it is already clear that in 2022 growth returns and presents a number not only higher than the year 2021, but also the year 2020, showing the resumption of the cooperative's growth at levels prior to the pandemic. Investor Remuneration 2020 2021 2022 Term deposit expense Interest on Capital Surplus-5,000,000,0010,000,000,0015,000,000,0020,000,000,0025,000,000.00Invest with Sicredi Creduni. 30,000,000.00 Accountability 38 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni 39 Investor Remuneration Sicr edi Creduni 8690 659.71,190.3 930.0 2020 2021 2022 34.9107 2020 2021 2022 (millions of R$) 302.8306.3 301.0 2020 2021 2022Total Assets (millions of R$) 26,827,129.8 2020 2021 2022Members Credit operations (millions of R$)Insurance Savings Pension Bank Collection (number of bills) Total Reserves Interest on Capital + Surplus (millions of R$) Net Equity (millions of R$) 78.4 64,070.5 2020 2021 2022 Financial Results +520+931 +522 (quantity) ( thousands of R$) (thousands of R$) (millions of R$) (millions of R$) R$ 836,823.40 BALANCE SHEET (in thousands of R$) ASSETS AVAILABILITY Total Assets 306,282 1,273 307,950 61,146 215,522 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Credit operations 306,28218,381 PROVISIONS FOR EXPECTED LOSSES ASSOCIATED WITH CREDIT RISK (4,797) OTHER ASSETS 202 FIXED ASSETS IN USE 1,288 366 INTANGIBLE LIABILITIES DEPOSITS Total Liabilities and Net Equity242,321 195,772 10,015 46 0Deposits in sight ta Interﬁnancial Deposits 185,297 Term Deposits 306,282 PROVISIONS FOR CIVIL, TAX AND LABOR RISKS TAS9,733 OTHER LIABILITIES 13,589 31,508 SOCIAL CAPITAL SURPLUS RESERVES 27,106 5,347 SURPOSES OR LOSE THE ACCUMULATION OF ADDITIONAL INS FINANCIAL TRUMENTS 23,227 Loan obligations SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 63,96123,212 15 STATEMENT OF SURPLUS OR LOSSES (in thousands of reais) Income from Credit Operations F inancial Income Income from Service Provision Income from securities and securities Total IncomeR$ 36,668 7,532 1,513 39 Other Operating Income 2,290 48,042Expenses Financing Expenses Loan and Transfer Expenses Provision for Doubtful Credits Expenses administrative Other Operating Expenses Total Expenses Result 2022R$ 15,664 4,487 41,752 6,29017,125 2,827 1,649 ALLOCATION OF LEFTOVERS (in thousands of reais) Allocation of Surplus Result of the Year Interest on Capital (12.28 % ) FATES (5%) Legal Reserve (10%) Surplus available to A GOR$ 6,290 -3,868 -314 -629 5,347 The complete financial statements can be found on the website sicredi.com.br/creduni together with the explanatory notes.Statements Financial 40 Accountability Sicr edi Creduni 12,901 Securities Reversal Equalization Fund 3.8681Independent Audit Opinion 41 Independent Audit Opinion Sicr edi Creduni 42 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni 2 43 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni 3 OPINION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL Campina Grande / Paraíba, March 9, 2023. As members of the Fiscal Council of Sicredi Creduni - Coopera�va de Economia e Crédito Mútuo dos Serv das Public Institutions of Higher Education of the State of Paraíba and Other Public Institutions and Bodies in the State of Paraíba LTDA and in the exercise of legal and statutory powers, we examine the Management Report and the Financial Statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses, Statement of Changes in Net Equity, Statement of Cash Flows, Explanatory Notes and other statements, and the respective audit report on the financial statements, these documents relating to the year ending December 31, 2022. After analyzing the data, it was found that the statements mentioned above are uniform. The management report and audit opinion are in accordance with the statements presented. Taking into account that 2022 was a year of global financial crisis that drastically raised the Selic rate, it was still possible to notice satisfactory results in the financial statements presented. Due to the Governance policies adopted by the Coopera�va and based on our examinations and the independent auditors' audit report, issued by Ernst & Young Auditores Independentes S.S., we are in favor of approving the aforementioned statements. Sincerely, Opinion of the Fiscal Council 44 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni 45 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Count on Sicredi CreduniSEDE Campina Grande - PB Rua Antenor Navarro,496, Prata CEP: 58400-520AG UFCG Campina Grande - PBRua Aprígio Veloso,882, Universitário CEP: 58429-900 AG UEPB Campina Grande - PBRua Domitila Cabral de Castro ,s/n, UniversitárioCEP: 58429-500AG PRATA Campina Grande - PBRua Antenor Navarro,571, Prata CEP: 58400-520 AG CASTELO BRANCO João Pessoa - PBRua Hortêncio Ribeiro,254, Castelo BrancoCEP: 58050-220AG JAGUARIBE João Pessoa - PBPraça General John Neiva,88c, Jaguaribe CEP: 58015-350 AG CENTRO DE VIVÊNCIA UFPB João Pessoa - PBCentro de Vivência UFPB,CEP: 58051-900 CENTRAL DERELACIONAMENTO (83) 4007 2654(83) 2101 70000800 606 1700WHATSAPPENTERPRISE (51 ) 3358 4770AG DUCKS Ducks - PBRua Writer Rui Barbosa,412, CentroCEP: 58700-060 Service Network 46 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni Count on WHATSAPP ENTERPRISEFor you ChannelsFor your company Current Account Loans Financing Financial Applications Funds Investments Savings Credit and Debit Card Credit and Salary PortabilityOverdraft Checkbook Insurance Consortiums Pensions Exchange Payments and Receipts Anticipation of 13th salary, vacation and income tax Solar Energy FinancingCurrent Account Billing Exchange Cards Anticipation of Receivables from Cards Consortiums Insurance Credit Home Banking Investments Payment and Suppliers Payment and Receipts Cash Application Electronic Internet BankingTelephone ServiceProducts and Services47 Annual Report 2022 Sicr edi Creduni sicredi.com.br/creduni @sicredicredunipb (51) 3358 4770 Sicredi Creduni