Annual report Sicr edi Alta Noroeste SP 21 A story together what we do2 Annual Report 2021 MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP ................................ .......................... 04 OUR COOPERATIVE ..................... ................................................. 06 OUR NUMBERS .............................................. .......................... 08 OUR AGENCIES .................. .................................................... ........ 09 20 YEARS SICREDI ALTA NOROESTE SP ...................................... 12 OUR HIGHLIGHTS IN 2021 ..... .................................................... 17 OTHER HIGHLIGHTS ............................................... ........................... 18 THE UNION MAKES LIFE PROGRAM ................ ............................. 21 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS ............... ............................................. 22 PROGRAM FOUNDING PARTNERS .............................................. 23 SICREDI .................................................... ............................................. 24 WE VALUE PEOPLE AND DIVERSITIES ............... 26 RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS ........................... .... 27 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION .............................................. ......... 28 SummarySummary4 ​​Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Message from the leadership President Each year our pride in coming here to show the collective results that achieved and the positive impacts we generate. In 2021 we completed 20 years since the founding of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP, and the year could not have been better. 20 years ago we were just 28 members, a very difficult start and with a lot of distrust from people and the founders themselves; how many uncertainties in just one dream. But today we celebrate more than 15 thousand partners and the trust that our business model has gained. In this report you will have the QR CODE that gives access to our documentary video of history of these 20 years. We were thrilled to bring together the founding partners and first collaborators and remember all the contributions each one made. Some of these founding partners and collaborators are no longer with us, but they contributed to this legacy. Today, from 4 employees we have grown to 130. From a small office within Unimed in Birigui we have six branches and two more under construction (Buritama and Promissão). I cannot forget our large Regional Headquarters that we opened in a separate building from the agency in Birigui. At the regional level alone, we have 32 employees dedicated to supporting agencies and associates. Once again, I reinforce that 2021, the year of our 20th anniversary, could not have been better. With a result of more than R$10.2 million, we can continue to believe that it is possible to take our credit cooperative to more cities in our area of ​​action and to more people and companies that need a fairer, more humane and profitable financial institution. Thank you, associates, collaborators and leaders. We are building more prosperous societies together. Américo Stuhr Péchy President of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP5 Message from the leadership Executive DirectorMessage from the leadership I also begin by thanking our more than 15 thousand associates, more than 130 employees and leaders, as did our president. It was the choices we made together with you that brought us here, a larger cooperative, with exponential growth and sustainable. We made an important choice in 2018, when in assemblies we approved the creation of the Expansion and Development Fund. This collective decision has allowed us to grow faster. After opening the last branch (Andradina in 2013), it took us seven years to open another, in 2020. In 2020 alone, we opened two new branches, Guararapes (March) and Ilha Solteira (July). Now in 2022 we are about to inaugurate Promissão, Buritama and Castilho, in addition to the renovation and expansion of the Birigui branch and moving the Araçatuba branch to a larger and better located building. We want to maintain this pace of expansion, with the cooperative being well received in the municipalities and members centralizing their finances with us. Our arrival in the cities contributes greatly to the improvement of local financial services, job creation and quality, and mainly by guiding the practice of interest rates in the local banking market. Therefore, cooperative and associates, we will promoting positive impact and building more prosperous societies. With a result of more than R$10.2 million in 2021, a growth of 39% in credit released (R$270 million) and 28% in total resources (R$492 million), we celebrate the logic of our model in make these resources spin the local economy. Charles André Fenske Executive Director of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP 6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Our cooperative Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Complete 20 years of foundation on November 20, 2021. Our cooperative has regional headquarters in Birigui and an operating area of ​​46 municipalities. We started as Alcred within Unimed Birigui with a group of 28 founding doctors, joining the Sicredi System the following year. Already part of Sicredi, it ended up incorporating another existing credit cooperative in Birigui, linked to the footwear sector, changing its name to Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP and increasing its business possibilities. Discover the 20-year history of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP It has branches in the cities of Birigui, Penápolis, Araçatuba, Andradina, Guararapes and Ilha Solteira, in that order of opening. In the cities of Buritama, Promissão, Castilho and Mirandópolis there are only commercial offices. Net result of R$ 10.2 million 14.7 thousand members 8 branches and 2 advanced service points 130 employees in 10 municipalities More than 300 financial solutions R$ 492.9 million in assets R$ 54 million in equity R$ 492 million in total resources R$ 276.8 million in balance in credit portfolioOur cooperative in numbers 7 REGIONAL OPERATION Legend City that contains members Cities that contain Sicredi branches Regional headquarters Sicredi Alta Noroeste Service points Exclusive Public Servant municipal The cities of Buritama, Promissão and Castilho are our last commercial offices to become agencies. The three already have construction contracts signed to be opened in 2022, reaching a total of 9 branches in the cooperative.ILHA SOLTEIRA ANDRADINA GUARARAPESARAÇATUB A BIRIGUI PENÁPOLISOur cooperative CASTILHO PROMISSÃOBURITAMA MIRANDÓPOLIS8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Our Membership Numbers (THOUSANDS) 10,374 201912.9 68 202014.790 2021+14.05% CREDIT (MILLION OF R$) 129,521 2019210,659 2020276,844 2021+31.42% INSURANCE (MILLION OF R$) 2,590 20194,120 20205,460 2021+25%PROFIT (MILLION OF R$) 6,112,890 20197,756,466 202010,220,989 2021+31.77% SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (MILLION OF R$) 33,043 201941,045 20 2054.091 2021+31.78% CONSORTIUMS (MILLION R$ ) 13,770 201922,350 202023,210 2021+4%TOTAL RESOURCES (MILLION R$) 236,083 2019384,692 2020492,940 2021+28.14%We are the balanced sum between the economic and the social. This is our business model: generating economic results and a positive impact on the lives of our associates and communities in that we are present. With complete financial solutions for every moment of life, we fulfill our role as a cooperative financial institution and also generate good numbers to continue reinvesting in expansion, qualification and the local economy.9 Our Cities Point your cell phone camera to get to know a little about the cities that we are present, by our own associates.Our Agencies We closed 2021 with agencies installed in 6 cities. And construction works and contracts for three more: in Buritama, Castilho and Promissão. In these three cities we currently only have commercial offices. Agencies are complete structures and teams of collaborators. The offices are just commercial rooms with a reduced team just for initial business prospecting, without cashiers and self-service services. Buritama and Promissão should be opened in the first semester and Castilho in the second. Service network10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP 11 Agencies Agencies AGÊNCIA ANDRADINA Rua Santa Terezinha, 1041, Centro - Andradina/SP Tel.: (18) 3725-0725 AGÊNCIA ARAÇATUBA Rua Floriano Peixoto, 236, Centro - Araçatuba/SP Tel.: (18 ) 3636-5151 AGÊNCIA BIRIGUI Rua Rui Barbosa, 35, Centro - Birigui/SP Tel.: (18) 3649-1212 AGÊNCIA BURITAMA Rua Rui Barbosa, 824, Centro - Buritama/SP Tel.: (18) 3644-0089 AGÊNCIA GUARARAPES Pç Nossa Senhora da Conceição, 188, Centro - Guararapes/SP Tel.: (18) 3637-9500 AGÊNCIA ILHA SOLTEIRA Rua Alameda Mato Grosso, 234, Centro - Ilha Solteira/SP Tel.: (18) 3725-0545 AGÊNCIA PENÁPOLIS Rua Dr Ramalho Franco, 620, Centro - Penápolis/SP Tel.: (18) 3652- 6100 AGÊNCIA PROMISSÃO Av Silvano Faria, 356, Centro - Promissão/SP Tel.: (18) 3644-0089 REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS Rua Saudades, 100, Centro - Birigui/SP Tel.: (18) 3638-121212 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP 20 Years of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP A legacy of dedication towards the credit cooperatives. On August 21, 2021, we celebrated this ideal initiated by a group of 28 doctors in Birigui, who later brought together entrepreneurs in the footwear sector and today in many other segments. This is our cooperative, which has made sense in the financial lives of many companies and people in the interior of São Paulo. Photo 1: From left: Wlamir Pontes (first administrative director), Lázaro Augusto de Mattos Neto (Central President Alcred SP), Américo Stuhr Péchy and Alphio Parpinelli Junior (president and vice-president of the cooperative at the time), inaugurating the cooperative's first service room within Unimed Birigui Photo 2: Wlamir Pontes, Maurício Roberto Anhesini (president Unimed Penápolis), Lázaro Augusto, José Carlos Vicentine (president Unimed Birigui), Américo Péchy and Alphio Parpinelli at the cooperative's inauguration ceremony after authorization from the Central Bank for operation Photo 1: After 4 years of beginning activities, in 2005 it was The cooperative's first branch with a street front was opened, on Travessa João Pessoa in Birigui, outside Unimed. It was established on August 21, 2000. Photo 2: Ordinary General Assembly in 2007 to approve that our then Sicredi Birigui (formerly Alcred - Cooperativa de Economia e Crédito Mútuo da Aliança dos Médicos), incorporated the cooperative Sicredi Ciesp Alta Noroeste, that worked within Sinbi for footwear manufacturers. Since then, we have been called Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP. Founding of the Cooperative in 2001 First milestones13 Discover the 20-year history of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Photos taken during interviews for the book that will tell the story of the cooperative. Our history is marked by a lot of commitment, ethics and dreams. A dream with feet on the ground that is still alive and under construction. Check out more details, exciting memories and historic moments in the 20 Years Documentary. Today Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP It is a reflection of the good foundations built in the past. Celebrating 20 years is celebrating the lives of each of our founding partners, those visionary pioneers who helped found Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP in an assembly on November 20, 2000, which was authorized to operate the following year, the date on which we celebrated the anniversary. With them, we honor all the associates and collaborators who were and are part of this history of ethics and sustainability. We also thank who has supported us since the beginning, Unimed Birigui, Unimed Penápolis and Sinbi (Sindicato das Indústrias do Calçado e Vestuário de Birigui). Documentary 20 years Tribute to founding partners20 years of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Founding partners Alfredo Querino da Silva Márcio de Almeida BotteonAntônio Zanovello FilhoAlphio Parpinelli Júnior Carlos Haruo Hayashi Elias Antônio NetoAnda Ney Terneira Vicentini Carmen Shirley Liberatori Gimaiel Evaldo de Araújo SanchezAntônio Alberto Scarabucci Figueiredo Célia Aparecida Rodrigues José Carlos Vicentini15 Sérgio Seiji NakaoDimas Vaz LorenzattoMilton Seigi Hayashi Sinbi Birigui President Renato RamiresRogéria Azevedo de Souza Pontes Unimed Penápolis President Lucas de Oliveira QuessadaNei Campelo Cabral Unimed Birigui President Elias Antônio NetoUylton Carlos de Morais GarciaRoque Gal hardo Filho Wlamir Pontes Apoiadores16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Para To celebrate the cooperative's 20th anniversary with its members, we promoted the Prized Anniversary promotion, with a draw for 6 brand new Honda NXR Bros 160 motorcycles and scratch cards with 2,100 gift vouchers. The draw for the motorcycles was held in a commemorative live on August 21st. We invite you to watch (or review) our commemorative live. The tributes were beautiful, the show by pianist Eder Giaretta and the performance by actor Rodrigo Santiago. Eder Giaretta, pianist from Birigui, in 2016 was invited to be a stunt double for maestro João Carlos Martins in the film “João, o maestro”. The motorcycles went to 2 associates from the Penápolis agency and 4 from the Birigui agency. In Penápolis, Cleber Machado Rodrigues de Souza, from Gráfica Santo Expedito, and Rafael Batista Fatori, from JP Fretes e Transportes, received awards. And in Birigui, associates Tamires de Barros de Oliveira, Fábio Júnior de Brito, Denise Marin Leite and Edinaldo Avanse. Prizes were awarded tax-free and documentation. Associate Cleber Machado donated the prize to the entities Apae and Asilo Lar Vicentino, from Penápolis. The entities are studying a campaign for the beginning of 2022 in order to make more money from the prize. “We were surprised by this beautiful gesture. This is a great example of cooperation and concern for others to brighten our 20th anniversary”, highlights Américo Stuhr Péchy, president of the cooperative. Who also gave a beautiful example of solidarity was the server municipal public Fábio Júnior de Brito, from Birigui. As soon as he found out he was one of the winners of a brand new motorcycle, he donated his old 2001 Honda Biz motorcycle to his friend at work. “He lives far away and only had one car to get to work, I know the motorcycle will save him a lot of money.” 20th anniversary live and anniversary promotion Commemorative Live Winners promotion 17 Our highlights in 2021 Relationship and Cooperativism Through various actions we fulfill our responsible role as a cooperative, promoting transparency, relationships and sustainable development. We thus strengthen our business model, spread cooperativism and promote inclusion and diversity. Assemblies 2021: In 2021 we held our Assemblies digitally in a single event and, despite being afraid, we managed to obtain a quorum and approvals. It was an important moment for us to present the good result and launch the Award-Winning 20th Anniversary Promotion of cooperative. Accountability: Our Core Meetings for accountability for the 1st Semester were also a single digital event. We offer everyone a free lecture on “Data Privacy and Cybersecurity” with Jefferson Thomas, national manager of Data Protection and Privacy at Sicredi. Coop Highlights in 202118 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Other highlights New regional headquarters: We opened on 04/26/2021 our new regional headquarters in Birigui in large and modern facilities. The regional office, located in Birigui, which was previously located on the top floor of the agency at Rua Rui Barbosa, 35, is now located at Rua Saudade, 100, next to Unimed, in a built area of ​​704.32m². The previous physical space did not allow for the necessary expansion, which motivated the move to a new location, so that they could work focused on the continued development of the cooperative. Convention: With the theme “Legacy: a legacy of achievements, a future of evolution”, we held our annual employee convention. Carried out digitally, we highlight the importance of leaving your contribution to the future of everyone who is yet to come in life, mirroring the dedication of the founding partners and directors of the cooperative since its foundation. 19 Sicredi Central PR/SP/RJ Awards: Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ once again awarded our cooperative for good management indicators. The award ceremony took place during the Annual Cooperative Seminar, which brought together presidents, directors and managers of the 31 cooperatives affiliated to the Central. It was held in November in a virtual format. We reached the evolution and management goal in all 17 indicators mapped monthly by the Center. These are indicators that measure the cooperative's performance in the areas of business, liquidity, increase in the member base and its main focus, risk mitigation, relationship and training with the membership, assets, sustainability and investment. Social. Other highlights20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Cooperation Day: On Day C this year, the cooperative carried out the “Donate from the Heart” campaign and collected another 6 tons of food, 350 household cleaning items and 500 personal hygiene items. These volumes were collected among associates and employees, in addition to voluntary actions in supermarkets. To mobilize donations, there was a draw for one suitcase per agency. Donations were sent to entities of the cities themselves. Bee Oil Project: The “Bee Oil” project removed 6,087 liters of cooking oil from the environment in just five months of collection in 2021 in Birigui. We did the math and that represents 6,763 bottles. It's too much. The action has an even greater impact on nature because this amount of recycled used oil is equivalent to 152.175 million uncontaminated water. In total, 9 thousand students were engaged in 25 schools in the city’s municipal network from Birigui. But how does it work? Each school has drums suitable for disposing of the product for recycling, which are sold to collection companies and the resources are donated to the schools themselves. This project was born in 2019 and plays an important role in children's education, in addition to mobilizing students to fight for a better world. Crescer Program: From October to November last year, even in the midst of the pandemic, we held workshops with 290 associates who had the opportunity to learn about the functioning of our credit cooperative and understand your role as owner in participatory management. This training is a commitment by Sicredi through the Crescer Program so that members understand the cooperative's business model, clarify doubts, talk about cooperative business and get closer to the agency. 21 Penápolis: Through our educational program A União Faz a Vida we opened the Penápolis Participatory Governance and Management Forum with the lecture “Participatory Management in Education”, given by our pedagogical advisor Juliane do Nascimento. Birigui: Our A União Faz a Vida program, held in Birigui in partnership with the Municipal Department of Education, showcased projects and certified teachers and managers trained in workshops. The meeting celebrated the initiative of educators who, even during the pandemic, encouraged students to take a leading role through the program's methodology. Program União Faz a VidaPrograma União Faz a Vida22 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Sustainable business Release of sustainable credit: More than R$20 million in financing for the installation of solar panels were released in the last three years by the cooperative Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP, which has regional headquarters in Birigui and serves 46 cities in the interior of São Paulo. In 2021 alone, there were more than R$10 million in credit operations for this sustainable alternative that has helped to overcome the successive increases in energy. Release of women's credit: More than R$9 million of Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP's credit resources were released to finance companies led by women in cities in the region. They are micro, small and medium-sized companies, supported with the cooperative objective of allocating resources to the generation of entrepreneurship and leadership opportunities, which meet factors such as gender and other social and environmental factors. Associate Earns R$5,000: Kelly Cristina Cordeiro, from Birigui- SP, was the member who won the R$5,000 prize from the Premiada Savings Promotion. The award went into the account of his company Miragaia Comércio de Sucatas LTDA, which will leave the resources invested in the cooperative. 23 The Founding Partner Program was established to recognize the first members of a new agency who paid in considered social capital to help build the foundation of the cooperative in their city. These associates are honored in the opening day, with its name recorded in the history of Sicredi in its municipality. Founding Partners of New Agencies Program In Buritama we brought together community leaders and associates to present our cooperative, which is in advanced construction of the first agency in the city. Local people and companies can now count on our services. While the agency is not ready at Rua Rui Barbosa, 824, we are operating in a commercial space at Galeria Rei do Price (Rua Presciliano Pinto de Almeida, 760). Promissão is another of the cities where we are expanding the cooperative, which is why we brought together leaders, the press and people from the city to present our benefits. The event was attended by around 100 people, some already members. While the branch is not ready at Av Silvano Faria, 356, employees are working in a commercial space at Rua Gentil Moreira, 243, Centro. Founding partners new agencies24 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP O Sicredi Operating for over 115 years, we are an institution made up of people for people, united around the same objective. We operate in a system organized in five regional centers and more than 100 cooperatives affiliated to them, each of them with autonomy for local operations. Our combined financial statements consolidate the results of all the companies that make up Sicredi. We have national size and presence • We are in 25 states and the Federal District • We have branches in 1,500 municipalities • In more than 200 municipalities we are the only financial institution to carry out physical purchases • More than 5.5 million members • More than 2.2 thousand branches total assets deposits total assets liquid administered by Asset credit portfolio R$ 197.8 billion R$ 129.5 billion R$ 25.2 billion R$ 133 billion R$ 55 billion *Data from December/2021 - PREVIEW.25 We believe that we can contribute to the development of a more prosperous societyOurs financial solutions are modern and collaborative We offer more than 300 financial products and services • Current account • Cards • Investments • Insurance • Consortiums • Card machine • 100% digital account • And much more Financial services With more than 300 products and services, we support our associates. In our operating model, the resources raised are reinvested in the region. Thus, we positively impact the community, stimulating income generation and sustainable growth. Our members are the true owners of the business, with the right to participate in the results and decisions of the cooperatives through voting. Tradition in innovating We are pioneers of credit cooperatives in Brazil and operate from the voluntary association of people around a common objective. Our business model is centuries old and at the same time current, as it is based on cooperation between people and interest in the community. We believe that digital solutions are allies in the dissemination of credit cooperatives. Working towards a more prosperous society Sustainability is one of the main pillars of Sicredi's operating model, which is why we are signatories to the UN Global Compact. Studies prove that the The performance of a credit cooperative generates a positive impact on factors such as GDP, job creation and income. They also show that credit cooperatives have a greater capacity to open branches in municipalities with fewer inhabitants and lower GDP, when compared to traditional banks, promoting greater access for the population to financial solutions. Solidity and security Our financial indicators have shown consecutive positive results. We are regulated by the Central Bank of Brazil and we have the same security mechanisms as other conventional financial institutions. We have a series of instruments that guarantee security and reliability to our members' investments Sicredi26 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP We value people and diversity Some initiatives Committees: Women and Youth We seek to promote diversity and form new leaders for cooperativism, our committees bring strength to these initiatives in all regions where we operate. Belonging Program We seek to engage members, establish rules of participation and guide the participatory management model, encouraging participation in assemblies and decision-making processes. The Union Makes Life Program We seek to promote the values ​​of cooperation and citizenship among children and adolescents. In its 25 years of existence, the program has impacted more than 3 million children and adolescents in 370 municipalities. Grow Program We seek to promote a greater understanding of credit cooperative societies among members and future members. Ratings assigned to Sicredi by the world's main risk agencies AA – Fitch Aa1 – Moodys AAA – Standard&Poor'sRecognitions For over 10 years, we have appeared in some of the most recognized national rankings and awards, such as: Melhores e Maiores, from Exame Magazine, Valor 1000, from Valor Econômico, Best Companies to Work For, from Você S/ Magazine A, rankings from the Central Bank and BNDES. In 2021 we were recognized as the 7th best Financial Institution in a ranking published by Forbes Magazine.27 Responsible Financial Solutions Because we are a cooperative, our Our priority is to meet the needs of our associates, the business owners. We seek to contribute to your prosperity when we offer financial solutions in a responsible way, suited to your moment in life and capable of adding income and generating value for your personal projects, your company or agribusiness. • Exchange • Credit and Debit Card • Digital Certification • Automatic Debit • Authorized Direct Debit • Current Account • Credit (Personal, Vehicles, Real Estate) • Consortiums • Investments • Pensions • Payments • Receipts • Savings • Insurance • Current Account • Business Cards • Payment and Receipt Solutions • Payroll • Collection • Check Custody • Card Machine • Banking Domicile • Credit • Financing • Credit for Investments BNDES • Investments • Corporate Pensions • Foreign Exchange • Digital Certification • Consortia • Insurance • Foreign Exchange • Cards • Digital Certification • Current Account • Rural Credit • BNDES Investment Credit • Consortiums • Financing • Investments • Payments and Receipts • Insurance • Savings • Sicredi App • ATM • Internet Banking • Telephone ServicesFor youFor your companyFor your agribusinessChannels Products and services with socio-environmental benefits Total R$9.2 billion R $2.2 billionR$2.9 billionR$1.3 billionR$1.1 billionR$1.8 billionResponsible financial solutions28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP Época 360 In Negócios 360, a guide prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral, the cooperative financial institution ranked 8th in the Banks sector ranking, a position influenced by its 2nd place ranking in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. Forbes Awards and Recognition In April 2021, Sicredi ranked seventh in the country in the World’s Best Banks 2021 ranking prepared by Forbes in partnership with the statistics company Statista. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. The survey, of a popular nature, took into account the opinion of 43 thousand respondents, from 28 different countries and evaluated the institutions based on general satisfaction and recommendation, based on the elements of trust, terms and conditions, customer service, digital services and financial consultancy. Best and Biggest In the Exame Melhores Maiores 2021 guide through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, one of the structures that make up the cooperative financial institution, ranked 15th among the Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Prepared since 1974, the yearbook, which this year has a partnership with Ibmec, brings together the largest companies in Brazil based on the evaluation of economic, financial, growth and adoption of practices criteria ESG. Recognition from BNDES Sicredi's good performance in the credit lines made available by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (in 2020 to minimize the impacts of the crisis caused by the Covid 19 pandemic) was recognized by the development bank's “Incentives for Financial Agents Project”. . The state body listed financial institutions with the best performance in granting measures emergencies between March and December last year. Sicredi was recognized in two categories - winning first place in both: BNDES Pequenas Empresas - Development Banks/Cooperatives and Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE) - Development Banks/Cooperatives. The partnership with Ibmec brings together the largest companies in Brazil based on the evaluation of economic and financial criteria, growth and adoption of ESG practices. Value 1000 The institution was in 9th place in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. In addition, Sicredi also stood out in 11 other categories of the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. Among the highlights, it occupied 4th place among the 20 most Profitable on Equity and 7th place in Credit Operations, Total Deposits. 29 Focus Annual Ranking of Central Bank Projections The Central Bank publishes an annual ranking of the most prominent financial institutions in terms of economic projections throughout the year. Sicredi has been featured in this ranking for 4 consecutive years and in 2020 it was no different. For the second consecutive year, Sicredi is the institution that had the greatest presence in the lists of the five institutions that came closest to achieving the indicators, being the only one to appear in five categories of the ranking. FGV Fund Guide Awards Sicredi, through its Asset, won first place in the Money Market category for Specialist Assets in the 2021 edition of the FGV Fund Guide, organized by the Center for Financial Studies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas. The winners were chosen by a committee made up of professors and researchers with academic and applied experience in investments, who analyzed the investment funds of financial institutions. Investment Fund Value Guide With strategies that value long-term assets, profitability well above their benchmarks and active management, funds from different risk and volatility categories, Sicredi have managed to remain among the 20 best since 2019 according to the Valor Guide evaluation of Valor Econômico Investment Funds. In category Active Fixed Income we stand out with our Fundo Sicredi Institucional FI REF IRF M from our own resource manager, Sicredi Asset, which has more than R$56 billion under management and a strong seal from Fitch Ratings. In the Index Shares category, our highlight is the Schroders Sicredi Ibovespa FIA Fund, managed by our partner Schroder Investment Management, which has more than 200 years of history in the financial market and globally manages more than U$D 785.1 billion. Abrasca Awards Sicredi's 2020 Sustainability Report was awarded at the 23rd Award from the Brazilian Association of Public Companies Abrasca, which highlights the improvement of reporting with greater clarity, transparency, quality of information and innovative and sustainable character. We won second place in the ‘Closed Companies’ category in a 100% virtual ceremony held on December 2nd. The first place in the category was the Annual Report of BNDES (National Bank of Economic and Social Development). Valor Grandes Grupos We are among the 200 largest business groups in Brazil, according to the Valor Grandes Grupos ranking. In the 2021 edition, published in December, we moved up one position compared to 2020, placing 68th overall, considering all listed companies. Among the 20 largest companies in the finance sector, the institution ranked 12th. Other milestones were the 9th place among the 20 largest in Net Profit and also among the 20 best in Net Equity and 12th position in Equity Profitability.GPTW Certification In August 2021, Sicredi became a company certified by GPTW, being able to participate, from 2022, from the GPTW ranking that lists the best companies to work for in Brazil. With an approval percentage of 88, the fact of being certified already shows an important achievement for a company of Sicredi’s size and breadth. Awards and recognition30 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Alta Noroeste SP E SicrediAltaNoroesteSP Q sicredi_alta_noroeste_sp sicredi.com.br/alta-noroeste-sp