CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF LAJEADO SICREDI INTEGRAÇÃO RS/MG CNPJ no. 91.159.764.0001 -80 CALL NOTICE CORE ASSEMBLY Digital Modality The President of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Lajeado – Sicredi RS/MG Integration, in the use of the powers conferred on it by article 5, § 2 of the Belonging Regulation, calls on associates from all Co operative groups to participate in ASSEMBLY DE NÚCLEO S to be held on February 14, 2022, from 2 pm (fourteen hours), until March 30, 2022, ending at 5 pm (seventeen hours), in digital mode, for all members, simultaneously, using the Belonging Tool *, to assess and deliberate, as a Nucleus, on the following AGENDA I. Election of Delegates of the Nuclei s and their Substitutes, for the purposes of representing the Nucleus's associates in the General Assembly of the Cooperative, according to art. 16 of the Bylaws and under the terms of the Belonging Regulation; II. Define the position (vote) of the Centers in relation to the matters that will be the subject of the 2022 Ordinary General Assembly of the Cooperative, which will be presented by the Delegates of the Centers at this Assembly, in accordance with § 4 of art. . 16 of the Bylaws: 1. Provision of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2021, comprising: a) management report; b) balance of the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surplus; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Election of the members of the Fiscal Council. 4. Homologation of the Belonging Regulation. 5. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative character). Lajeado - RS, February 2, 202 2. Adilson Carlos Metz President OBSERVATIONS: 1. * Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, registering and identifying themselves with their CPF or CNPJ and password, on any of the days and times indicated in the preamble, by any internet device, registering for identification, at which time your entry into the Assembly will be admitted. The mechanism The digital format used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time. 2. The Core Assembly will be held in digital format, the modality of which is supported by the Pertencer Regulation, in its art. 5th, §§ 7th and 10th. 3. Each member will have the right to one vote, regardless of the date they participate.