Classification of information: Unrestricted Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT OF LAJEADO SICREDI INTEGRAAÇÃO RS/MG CNPJ no. Sicredi Integração RS/MG, using the powers conferred on it by article 5, § 2 of the Belonging Regulation, calls on members from all the Cooperative's nuclei, to participation in the CORE ASSEMBLY to be held between February 1, 2023 and February 22, 2023, at the time between 9 am (nine) hours and 5 pm (seventeen) hours, in digital mode, remotely, using the Tool Belong*, to assess and deliberate, as a Nucleus, on the following AGENDA I. Election of Delegate of the Nuclei and their Substitutes, for the purposes of representing the Nuclei associates in the General Assemblies of the Cooperative, according to art. 16 of the Bylaws and under the terms of the Belonging Regulation; II. Define the position (vote) of the Nucleus in relation to the matters that will be the subject of the Extraordinary and Ordinary General Assembly scheduled for March 1st, which will be presented by the Nucleus Delegate, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. MATTERS OF THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1. Reform and consolidation of the Cooperative's Bylaws, in its full version, with emphasis on the following provisions: a) Article 2, respective paragraphs – change in the Cooperative’s disaffiliation rules and renumbering of paragraphs; b) Art. 3 - amendment of the corporate purpose to include the possibility of providing financial and non-financial products and services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, to non-members, including payment services in the modalities of acquirer and payment transaction initiator ; c) Article 4 - inclusion of the sole paragraph regarding the provision of equity participation in other entities; d) Art. 5, respective sections – inclusion of depersonalized entities among the possibilities of association and renumbering of sections; e) Art. 5, § 3, I – remission of the provision and amendment of the rule regarding the prohibition of association with those who carry out activities competing with the Cooperativ a; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use f) Art. 11, §1 - ​​change of requirement statutory entry or remaining member of the Cooperative's membership; g) Art. 12, respective paragraphs – provision that the shares of the capital are unseizable; change of rule regarding the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital; inclusion of a rule regarding the allocation of capital balances, capital remuneration or surplus payables, as well as renumbering of paragraphs; h) Arts. 13, 14, and 18, respective paragraphs and items – amendment of rules for calling and the format for holding General Assemblies; i) Art. 24 – new section to include matters within the competence of the Ordinary General Assembly; j) Art. 27 caput, and respective items and paragraphs – change in the conditions for candidacy and holding the position on the Board of Directors; inclusion of the deadline for taking office of elected officials; and renumbering of the respective sections and paragraphs; k) Art. 28, § 3 - adequacy of the meeting format the Board of Directors; l) Art. 29, respective sections – inclusion of new duties for the Board of Directors; adequacy of rules regarding corporate participation in other entities, as well as renumbering of items; m) Art. 32, § 4 - inclusion of the deadline for taking office of the appointed Directors and renumbering of paragraphs; n) Art. 33 – adequacy of references mentioned in the article; o) Art. 38, caput and paragraphs – change in the composition of the Council Supervisor; exclusion of the indication of the order of substitute in the registration of the plate; inclusion of the deadline for taking office of elected officials; deletion of renewal rule; and renumbering of paragraphs; p) Art. 39, § 4 - adaptation of the format for holding Fiscal Council meetings; q) Art. 40 caput and § 1 - amendment of the rule relating to replacement in case of temporary absence or vacancy of fiscal councilors; r) Art. 42, caput - setting the date for the end of the year Social; s) Art. 44, respective sections – provision that FATES may also be intended for the community located in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; change of the nomenclature from “Philanthropic Fund” to “Social Fund” and the allocation of resources from this Fund; inclusion of the forecast for the recovery of resources from the guarantee funds; and renumbering of items; t) Art. 54 – inclusion of this provision on the Audit Board's transitory rule; u) Other changes to devices aim to improve the wording and/or adapt device references, given the renumberings carried out. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING MATTERS 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of leftovers; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Approval of the Remuneration Standard for Statutory members. 4. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Lajeado – RS, January 16, 2023. NOTES: 1. * Instructions for participating and voting in the Belonging Tool: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleias, registering and identifying themselves with their CPF and password, including the legal representative of a legal entity member (if applicable), on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time they will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used allows members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. 2. The Core Assembly will be held in digital format, the modality of which is supported by the Belonging Regulation, in its art. 5th, § 10. This Notice was posted on the UA wall _______________________________ from 01/16/2023 to 02/23/202 3. Adilson Carlos Metz President