Classification of information: Unrestricted Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT OF LAJEADO - SICREDI INTE GRAÇÃO RS/MG CNPJ no. and Investment of Lajead o - Sicredi INTE GRAÇÃO RS/MG, in the use of the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the core delegates elected in the respective Assemblies, which on this date total 68 (sixty-eight), to meet in EXTRAORDINARY AND ORDINARY GENERAL EMBLEIA ASSESS, to be held on March 1, 2023, at 6 pm (ten eight) hours, at Teatro Univates, Along to the Univates Cultural Center, located at Av. Avelin o Talini, no. 171, Universitário neighborhood, in this city and, in the first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in the second call, at 19 (ten nineteen) hours, with the presence of half of delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 20 (twenty) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (of z) delegates, to deliberate on the following AGENDA OF THE REGIM AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY 1 Reform and consolidation of the Cooperative's Social Statute, in its full version, with emphasis on the following provisions: a) Art. 2, respective paragraphs – change in the Cooperative's disaffiliation rules and renumbering of paragraphs; b) Art. 3 - amendment of the corporate purpose to include the possibility of providing financial and non-financial products and services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, to non-members, including payment services in the modalities of acquirer and payment transaction initiator; c) Art. 4 - inclusion of the sole paragraph regarding the provision of corporate participation in other entities; d) Article 5, respective sections – inclusion of entities depersonalized among the possibilities of association and renumeration of the sections; e) Art. 5, § 3, I – remission of the provision and change of the rule regarding the prohibition of association with those who carry out competitive activities with the Cooperativ a; f) Art. 11, § 1 - change in the statutory requirement for joining or remaining as a member of the Co operative's membership; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use g) Art. 12, respective paragraphs – provision that the shares -parts of the capital are unseizable; change of rule regarding the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital; inclusion of a rule regarding the allocation of capital balances, capital remuneration or surplus payables, as well as renumbering of paragraphs; h) Arts. 13, 14, and 18, respective paragraphs and items – change in the rules for calling and the format for holding General Assemblies; i) Art. 24 – new section to include matters of competence of the Ordinary General Assembly; j) Art. 27 caput, and respective items and paragraphs – change in the conditions for candidacy and holding the position on the Board of Directors; inclusion of the deadline for taking office of elected officials; and renumbering of the respective items and paragraphs; k) Art. 28, § 3 - adaptation of the format for holding meetings of the Board of Directors; l) Art. 29, respective sections – inclusion of new duties for the Board of Directors Administration; adequacy of rules regarding corporate participation in other entities, as well as renumbering of items; m) Art. 32, § 4 - inclusion of the deadline for taking office of the appointed Directors and renumbering of paragraphs; n) Art. 33 – adequacy of references mentioned in the article; o) Art. 38, caput and paragraphs – change in the composition of the Supervisory Board; exclusion of the indication of the order of substitution in the registration of the ticket; inclusion of the deadline for carry out the inauguration of elected officials; deletion of renewal rule; and renumbering of paragraphs; p) Art. 39, § 4 - adaptation of the format for holding Fiscal Council meetings; q) Art. 40 caput and § 1 - amendment of the rule relating to replacement in case of temporary absence or vacancy of fiscal councilors; r) Art. 42, chapter t - fixing the closing date of the fiscal year; s) Art. 44, II and III – provision that FATES may also be intended for community located in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; change of the nomenclature from “Philanthropic Fund” to “Social Fund” and the allocation of resources from this Fund; and renumber the sections; t) Art. 54 – change in the transitional provision; u) Other changes to devices aim to improve the wording and/or adjust device references, given the renumberings carried out; Classification of information: Unrestricted Use UNDER ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY REGIME 1. Accounting for the financial year ending on December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance of the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surplus; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Ratification of the Remuneration Standard for Statutory members. 4. Ratification of the Administrator Succession Policy. 5. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative character). Lajeado/RS, February 10, 2023. Adilson Carlos Metz President OBSERVATIONS: 1. The Assembly will not be held at the headquarters due to lack of accommodation. 2. The proposed Bylaws, Remuneration Rules for Statutory members and Directors' Succession Policy are available at the Cooperative's headquarters.