1 Introduction 2 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG We want to grow, but alongside our community. And we want development, but always respecting people, the environment and looking at each member with their particularities and life stories. That is why, as Sicredi Integração RS/MG, we are together “so that our financial life can lead to a better world”. 2021 was remarkable, as it required greater commitment from everyone and the desire to overcome problems that we were previously unaware of. But the balance is positive, because even in a difficult year, with the difficulties still present from the pandemic, the unstable economy and an inflationary period, we grew! We surpassed 64 thousand members and reached an amount of R$3,424,906,593 in managed resources and R$282,052,539 in net equity. The operating model has proven to be very effective and not even challenges have prevented our expansion. On the contrary, we put several projects into practice opening new branches and reformulating some in the two states, Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais. So that the cooperative and everyone linked to it can progress, we are always attentive and close to its members and the communities in which they live, strengthening bonds and relationships because we believe that this makes all the difference. We continue to move the economy and return resources so that people and companies can use them, making wheel spin.Message from the Council We are part of a great movement that believes that no one needs to lose, but that everyone can win. Therefore, we thank our associates for their partnership and trust. With great responsibility and wisdom, we will continue investing and strengthening our structure. Everything is always done with attention and analysis of scenarios that directly and indirectly influence the lives of members, such as the pandemic itself and the extreme weather effects that are ravaging the South with one of the biggest droughts in recent years and the Minas Gerais region is also affected by heavy rains, and can offer adequate support. With our actions and work guided by the pillars of cooperativism, we are building a more prosperous society and contributing to the economic and social development of the regions in which we are present. Adilson Metz and Luiz Mário Berbigier: President and Vice-President Sicredi Integração RS/MG3 Introduction Message from Board It is during challenging periods that we are most motivated to continue “Building a more prosperous society together”. And, thus, many internal changes at our Sicredi Integração RS/MG are conducted, taking into account our organizational culture, formed by values, beliefs, experiences, ethical and ethnic customs. What determines management style and people's behavior are unique and we believe that these differentiate us, mainly because we are a cooperative of people for people. This year we continued our expansion in both states of operation, opening new agencies in MG in the cities of Congonhas, Entre Rios de Minas and Mariana, and also modernized spaces in existing agencies in RS and MG, further improving the humanized relationship with our customers. associates, in a closer, simpler and more agile way. Furthermore, in the service channels, we work on continuous improvement to offer an evolving experience to our customers. members, making it easier to choose a service and expanding opening hours at all branches. And, as a new feature, we created a platform with associated companies that finance vehicles, construction materials, furniture, machinery and equipment. The cooperative also implemented PIX, in compliance with the Central Bank's determination, at no cost to Individual and Legal Entity members. Allied to one of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, in this case solar energy, we also carry out several actions with society and promote our purpose of developing the communities where we operate with economy and sustainability. In practice, we encourage our members with special lines of financing that make it possible to implement photovoltaic projects in their homes and businesses. It is the sum of all these work fronts that differentiate and strengthen us. “Do it Together!” The Sicredi Integração RS/MG team will be always by your side! Liviane Bald and Graziela Reis Bogorni: Operations Director and Executive Director4 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Our cooperative Sicredi Integração RS/MG began in 1906, when 18 Lajeadenses influenced by Father Theodor Amstad came together to create Spar und Darlehnkasse von Lageado – Lageado Savings and Loan Bank. On this day, the statutes were approved, the capital was paid in and the first board of directors was elected. O Entry into the Sicredi System took place in 1993, under the name of Cooperativa de Crédito de Lajeado Ltda. In this way, we become part of a national system, with specialized companies and financial instruments that increase the security of members and strengthen local operations. The Administrative Headquarters is located in Lajeado, in the São Cristóvão neighborhood, where the Regional Superintendence and all support sectors operate, such as operations management, business consultancy, back office, people management, relationships, credit cycle and information technology. Profile Main moments in history 1906 Foundation (Caixa Econômica e de Empréstimo de Lageado) 1993 Joining the Sicredi System 2019 Start of expansion to Minas Gerais and transformation of name for Sicredi Integração RS/MG2006 The Lajeado Credit Cooperative – Sicredi Vale do Taquari RS completes 100 years of history1944 Statutory amendment including the new name Cooperative Banco Popular de Lajeado Limitada 2016 In celebration of 110 years, the Cooperative reaches the mark of R$ 1 billion in managed financial resourcesMemorial 1926 Change to the Luzzati System – Free Membership System5 Introduction In this last year, we have advanced in our area of ​​activity . We opened the Univates physical agency, expanded the Mato Leitão agency and started serving three more agencies in Minas Gerais – Congonhas, Entre Rios de Minas and Mariana. Through our network, which already has 23 branches, we have relationships with 64,802 associates, strengthening the Sicredi brand and creating bonds each time Regional/local operationsGROWTH IN THE NUMBER OF MEMBERS 52,119 52,207 201857,090 2019 202064,802 2021+13.5% stronger with the communities . In some locations, we are the only financial institution present, one of the virtues of credit cooperatives that favors banking. In this way, in addition to generating the financial inclusion of thousands of people, we are contributing to local development. Area of ​​operation RS 11 Municipalities 16 AgenciesArea of ​​operation MG 26 Municipalities 7 Agencies Ouro Preto Itabirito Cachoeira do CampoMarianaSão Joaquim de BicasMário Campos Rio Manso Crucilândia Piedade dos Gerais Desterro de Entre Rios Entre Rios de MinasJeceaba São Brás do Suaçuí Queluzito Casa GrandeCristiano OtoniSantana dos MontesItaveravaCatas Altas of NorwayOuro Branco Advise LafaieteCongonhasMoeda Belo ValeBrumadinho Bonﬁm Diogo de VasconcelosBoqueirão do LeãoProgresso Canudos do Vale SérioForquetinha Santa Clar a do Sul Cruzeiro do SulMato LeitãoLajeadoMarques de SouzaTravesseir oCheck out the video of the agencies: 6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi We are one of more than 100 member cooperatives of Sicredi, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. We are part of a national system made up of more than 5.5 million associates, who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network that supports its prosperity with responsible financial solutions. In Rio Grande do Sul (RS), Sicredi has more than 2 million members and coverage reaches 94% of municipalities, totaling more than 600 service points. In Minas Gerais (MG), Sicredi's presence has been advancing. Since 2018, there have been 74 service points and more than 76 thousand members who, in 2021, accumulated a result of more than R$1 million. Sicredi Integração RS/MG is currently in two states, in RS and MG, putting into practice a business model that builds a value chain, benefiting the member, the cooperative and the local community.Sicredi Hoje States covered by Sicredi and with an expansion project underwayRSSCPRSPMSMGGOMTTO BAPIMA PA CEAM AC ROAPRR RN PB PE AL SE ES RJ Previous data January to December 2021. + R$ 197.6 billion in total assets in total deposits+ R$ 129.5 Bi-distributed in equity+ R$ 1.4 billion + R$ 25.2 billion Financial data + 100 + 5.5 million member cooperatives + 2,200 + 30 thousand employee service points General data7 Introduction Sicredi Integração RS/MG Administrative Headquarters in Lajeado-RS Administrative Headquarters Project in Conselheiro Lafaiete-MG + R$ 3.4 billion in resources managed in total deposits + R$ 1.7 bi-distributed in equity + R$ 9.4 million + R$ 282 million Financial data 37 municipalities + 64 thousand in area of ​​activity associates23 agencies 330 employees General dataHighlights of the year01Chapter10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Winning Integration Campaign distributed more than R$700 thousand in prizesCine Sicredi Integração RS/MG for students from Travesseiro, Progresso and Mato Leitão Sicredi Integração RS/MG values ​​its members in several ways. One of the major recent actions was the Premiada Integration Campaign, which began in September 2020 and ended in April 2021. In the final draw, held on the 17th at the headquarters of the Employees Association, the winners of the main prizes were announced, a Toyota Yaris Sedan and Jeep Compass Sport, which included Deoclides José Battisti, from Progresso/RS , and Divanir Teresinha da Costa, from Lajeado/RS, respectively. To mark the passage of Children's Week, Sicredi Integração RS/MG transformed the Ruben Neitzke Auditorium, at the Administrative Headquarters of Lajeado, into a movie theater. In addition to cars, the action raffled off 180 savings of R$ 2 and 4 thousand and 20 Honda Biz 125 motorcycles, totaling more than R$ 700 thousand in prizes. The action took place between the 13th and 15th of October with students from participating municipal schools from the program “A União Faz a Vida” by Travesseiro, Progresso and Mato Leitão.List of winners Participation took place through financial operations and the greater the movement, the more chances the members had to be included. With around 300 thousand coupons, the promotion was a success and fulfilled its objective of stimulating development and reinforcing the “I cooperate with the local economy” movement. Members of Lajeado and Progresso were the winners of the vehicles With film sessions for children and pre-teens, the initiative sought to provide a different activity for students from the communities where the cooperative is located, providing cultural programming outside the school environment. Attraction was aimed at children and pre-teens 11 Highlights of the year NPS: excellence in member satisfaction surveySicredi: an excellent place to work For the member, the NPS represents the credibility that their friends and family have in the brand. NPS is a global satisfaction methodology, that is, it demonstrates the trustworthiness that customers, in our case, associates, have with a specific brand. As a cooperative financial institution, Sicredi is made from people to people. And when we put our employees at the center of decisions, we value their perception and improve their experience in the workplace, expanding the positive impact we generate for all associates. It's our virtuous circle, day by day, happening from the inside out. And to crown this strategy, in 2021 we certified as an employer brand by GPTW (Great Place To Work), a Climate Research methodology based on engagement and trust relationships. At a system level, more than 25 thousand employees contributed their perception of our work routines, resulting in a favorability index of 88%. With a rate growing constantly in the last 12 months, Sicredi Integração RS/MG reached the level of excellence in NPS (Net Promoter Score), with a mark of 82%. Used to measure the degree of customer satisfaction and loyalty towards a company, this methodology is used worldwide. Through telephone contact and through random selection, active members aged between 18 and 70 years old and with more than 90 days of association responded to the question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how much would you recommend our company/product/ service for a friend and/or family member?” Based on the scores assigned, the calculation of the index considers the classification of respondents into Promoters (grades 9 and 10), Neutrals (7 and 8), and Detractors (with a score below 6). In the four satisfaction zones, which range from Critical to Excellence, Sicredi Integração RS/MG achieved the highest level, which demonstrates that the majority of its members are satisfied and are loyal to the cooperative. At the regional Sicredi Integração RS/MG, 258 employees scored a rate of 89%, recognizing the cooperative as an excellent place to work. This result demonstrates the engagement of employees, the strength of the cooperative essence, our strength of almost 120 years of history and how much we are fulfilling the purpose of building, together, a more prosperous society. It is with this attractive environment, which makes people feel mobilized and which generates connection, the desire to go further and make a difference, that we will achieve our purpose of a business model that increasingly places the associate at the center of everything. what we do. 12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Exchange of delegations brings together miners and gauchos Operating in two states of the country, Sicredi Integração RS/MG adopted as a rapprochement strategy the carrying out of exchanges between miners and gauchos through visits that involve a week of immersion in the municipalities served by the region. Composed of members, business leaders, authorities, core coordinators, counselors and collaborators, the delegation participants learn more about the institution, get to know agencies and they visit properties and enterprises of other members, verifying in practice the performance of Sicredi Integração RS/MG and cooperative concepts, as well as legitimizing the consolidation of expansion in Minas Gerais. The itineraries also involve tourist attractions related to cooperativism or the culture of the states, such as the Serra Gaucha and the historic cities of Minas. Throughout the year, two trips were made to MG and five other groups visited RS. The classes are limited to facilitate logistics, as well as respect Covid health protocols. The purpose is to provide visitors with information that can be shared and multiplied within their communities of origin. Delegations from Congonhas and Conselheiro Lafaiete are among those who visited the South. , such as Entre Rios de Minas, also visited Nova Petrópolis – the cradle of cooperativism. Gaúchos visited places such as Congonhas City Hall and a dairy production in Entre Rios de Minas 13 Highlights of the year Expansion with new agencies The year was one of growth with the expansion of agencies in our area of ​​operation. Investments were made to further expand and improve service structures, taking as a starting point the first physical agency in the region, opened in April at the Universidade do Vale do Taquari - Univates, in Lajeado. The unit follows a global trend adopted for safety and model reasons business, further encouraging the use of digital channels and striving for sustainability and innovation. In the month of July it was the turn of the The cooperative offers products and services that promote the financial inclusion of the population and boost the local economy. Fisital Agency at Univates Mato Leitão Agency Congonhas AgencyOpening of the Entre Rios de Minas branchOpening of the Marian branchrenovation and modernization of the Mato Leitão (RS) branch. The remodeling took into account not only the alignment with the visual identity, but also the qualification of the environment through the better distribution of services between the areas (Cashiers, Individuals (PF), Legal Entities (PJ) and Agribusiness). In MG, progress was made with three more new agencies. In April, activities began in Congonhas and Entre Rios de Minas, where modern structures and agile, humanized service began to make a difference for hundreds of new members. Finally, in October, Sicredi Integração RS/MG set up shop in Mariana, the first capital of MG. Locate the nearest branch 14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Digital transformation The evolution of markets has forced organizations to quickly adapt to new scenarios. And to be prepared, we must envision possible futures and develop actions that prepare the cooperative to continue achieving its purpose of “Building a more prosperous society together”. O The term Digital Transformation in the Sicredi System is used to illustrate the cultural, behavioral and technological changes developed so that we are increasingly present in communities in a simple, close and active way. Development of RPAs Since 2019, we have developed and implemented RPAs (Robotic Process Automation), automations that facilitate day-to-day operational processes in our cooperative so that adaptations to new developments are supported. challenges and scenarios.Deposits via WhatsApp This year we enhanced the availability of this channel, facilitating the journey of our members who no longer need to travel to a branch to deposit checks.Digital signature We expanded the use of digital signatures to generate a more fluid experience within members' needs, with more agility and flexibility.15 Highlights of the New Caixa year In 2021, we made the change in all branches of the Caixa Platform, where We started using a more agile tool that directly reflects on improving employee learning. PF Platform We implemented the PF Platform in all of the cooperative's branches, providing members and employees with a simpler and more practical journey. This implementation also brought opportunities to use technology to further improve our associate's experience through contacts made via the Action Engine, which sends stimuli through Push and email on a wide range of topics. This transformation also makes it possible to deliver an even simpler, closer and more active service, including providing opportunities for it to be done wherever the member is and prefers. With this change, they spend less time learning their role, freeing up their “teachers” for other activities and serving members in a more agile and simple way. 16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Awards in 2021 In another year, Sicredi was highlighted in the rankings of the main awards organized by national media outlets, including Época and Exame magazines and Jornal Valor Econômico. These are performances based on general satisfaction and that demonstrate our reputation in criteria such as customer service, digital services and financial consultancy. FORBES 7th position in the country in the World’s Best Banks ranking. In total, 500 banks were listed globally in the publication. REVISTA EXAME We stand out in 15th place among the largest banks in the Guia Exame Melhores & Maiores 2021, through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. The yearbook lists the largest companies in Brazil based on the evaluation of economic-financial criteria, growth and adoption of ESG practices. ÉPOCA MAGAZINE The cooperative financial institution ranked 8th in the Banks sector ranking, a position influenced by its 2nd place ranking in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi it also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. 17 Highlights of the year VALOR ECONOMICO We achieved 9th position in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the Valor 1000 Yearbook, published by the Valor Econômico newspaper. In addition, Sicredi also stood out in 11 other categories of the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. FINANCE MORE Published by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo, We participated in this yearbook through Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. We were ranked 6th in the “Banks - Financing” category. BROADCAST PROJECTIONS AWARD – AGÊNCIA ESTADO Sicredi was in 6th place in the General Top and 7th in the Basic Top. In its 15th edition, the award is based on the AE Projeções ranking and aims to reward institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators come closest to reality. WORLD COUNCIL YOUNG CREDIT UNION PEOPLE (WYCUP) The cooperative financial institution had five winners among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects registered, from 13 different countries. The program recognizes young leaders FGV FUNDS GUIDE AWARD Sicredi won 1st place in the Money Market category for Specialist Assets in the 2021 edition of the FGV Funds Guide, organized by the Center for Financial Studies at Fundação Getúlio Vargas. for contributions to their communities and credit unions and that have the potential to make a global impact. 18 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG 19 Introduction Relationships and cooperativism02Chapter20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG The election of new directors takes place at the 2022 Ordinary General MeetingSicredi Integração RS/MG is made up of two councils: Administration and Fiscal. The Board of Directors was elected in 2021, when the members approved the single ticket led by Adilson Metz (president) and Luiz Mário Berbigier (vice-president) for the term that runs until 2025. The group is made up of individual members (PF) elected in a general assembly, also counting on 11 effective advisors. With a schedule of monthly agendas, they assist the cooperative in strategic direction and monitor compliance with approved planning. The Fiscal Council, also made up of members PF elected at the general assembly, has three effective members and three substitutes. Among its responsibilities at periodic meetings is supervision over assets, operations with members, services and the actions of administrators. The mandate of the current management ends in 2022. The governance organization chart is also made up of an executive board, headed by Graziela Reis Bogorni (executive director) and Liviane Bald (operations director).Governance Council Fiscal Board of Directors 21 Relationship and Cooperativism NAME Adilson Carlos Metz Luiz Mário Leite Berbigier Delcio Dreissig Auri Schneider Katiane Luft Marcos Luis Gonzatti Paulo José da Costa Jeferson Thomas Dilceu Pontin Marino da Costa Juraci José Rodrigues Evanir Diehl Roberta Salvini Dani José Petry Jandir Dickel Noeli Teresinha Kuhn Delmar Luis Bruxel Luisiane Schardong Mirian Angela WiebuschCARGO President Vice-President Board Member Effective Board Member Effective Administration Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Administration Councilor Effective Fiscal Councilor Effective Fiscal Councilor Effective Fiscal Councilor Substitute Fiscal Councilor Substitute Fiscal Councilor Substitute Fiscal CouncilorCITY Forquetinha Lajeado Boqueirão do Leão Cruzeiro do Sul Lajeado Canudos do Vale/Sério Lajeado Santa Clara do Sul Progresso Marques de Souza/Travesseiro Lajeado Mato Leitão Lajeado Lajeado Lajeado Lajeado Lajeado Lajeado LajeadoAdministration Councilors and Fiscal Councilors Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Sicredi Integração RS /MG is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the executive management of the business. It is made up of an Executive Director and a Director of Operations. Board of Directors The body is responsible for establishing the general and strategic orientation and objectives of the Cooperative, in addition to supervising its management, so that its actions meet the interests of members. Fiscal Council It is the body that monitors compliance with legal and statutory duties of administration.22 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Unlike tradition, the 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Nucleus Assembly was digital. Carried out through the website www.sicredi. com.br/assembleiadigital from March 15th to 19th, the format was adopted due to the pandemic, which had already interrupted in-person assemblies in 2020. The credit cooperative encourages member participation in assemblies through the Pertencer Program, valuing transparency and the opportunity for them to exercise their role as owner and decide together the direction of the business. The 2021 assembly process ended on April 15 with the Ordinary General Assembly, also online, simultaneously reaching 58 core coordinators/delegates, who approved the accounts for the 2020 financial year, ending on December 31st. They validated the decisions of their representatives, that is, the members who participated virtually and exercised their right to vote in the Nucleus Assembly. The circumstances demonstrated the agility of adapting to new scenarios, in addition to an interest on the part of members to maintain the virtual modality. For this reason, the tendency is to adopt the digital model from now on, seeking to increasingly increase member participation in the process. Virtual assembly during the pandemic Center CoordinatorsVirtual Presentation23 Relationship and Cooperativism Cooperativism, through one of its 7 principles - Education/Training/Information -, transmits knowledge to its members about cooperative culture through the Crescer Program. This In this way, it allows them to participate more appropriately in business decisions, also offering information to the community about the benefits of belonging to a cooperative. With the aim of developing the local community, this program brings with it the vision of a more collaborative life. How it works: employees are divided into groups and take a course to delve deeper into the topic and become multipliers of knowledge about cooperativism. In these During training, topics focused entirely on cooperative development are covered, from history to the present day, how a credit cooperative develops and how it benefits the local community. The agencies, having employees trained in the Crescer Program, meet with their associates for a moment of conversation with the aim of strengthening the relationship, expanding the vision that a collaborative society is closer to people and highlighting the value aggregate for the region where cooperatives are present is much higher. #Protagonism #Transparency #Transformation #Opportunity #Cooperate #Community #Innovation #Happiness #Entrepreneurship Associates participating in the formation of the CrescerPrograma Crescer: tool to multiply knowledge about credit cooperatives The magic words represent the main actions and attitudes present in our virtuous cycle , one of the themes covered in the Crescer Program. Through In this cycle, where everyone grows, we make our financial lives more prosperous. When we play our active role as associates (owners, investors and users), money circulates, moves the local economy and becomes more opportunities for the region, offering jobs, generating income and developing the community. The Crescer Program is a cooperative education tool that shows the strength of the collective, of ‘doing it together’, of understanding its role as owner of the business and qualify your participation in the cooperative. 24 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Our cooperative registered an increase of 70 new employees in 2021. In total, there are 330 employees working in the Regional Superintendency and in the 23 branches in RS and MG. Everyone receives initial training when they join the team and has constant updates available to improve the work performed in each area. We also have Sicredi Aprendi, which is a virtual learning environment with the aim of promoting the professional and personal development of employees. Within this, we have the Cooperative University, in which various online trainings are carried out. More employees and more qualifications to serve Sicredi AprendisCheck out some of the 2021 courses, which involved employees, management, president and even counselors and core coordinators: School of Councils Presidents' Day Development of Directors An immersive experience in Innovation Embarkation of the New BoardLeadership for Disruptive Innovation The Debut of the Leader Career and Culture Program More Business for Managers Credit Analysis Legal Entities Immersion for New Employees Agribusiness DevelopmentMore PF Businesses More PJ Businesses Jornada Mineira GrafóticaSchool of Executives Innovation School Leadership School Agency School Headquarters School Agro Integration School new MG25 employees Relationships and Cooperativism Digital and property security are priorities for Sicredi Integração RS/ MG. We have implemented the Sicredi System Information Security and Cybersecurity Policy, which establishes guidelines, rules and controls at all levels. In addition to full technological support, we keep our employees trained and updated to prevent, identify and advise on any risks. Discover some of our actions: Digital security Information Security and Cybersecurity Risk Management compatible with the business model, the nature of operations and the complexity of products, services, activities and processes; Compliance with internal and external standards, laws and regulations in force; Dissemination of information security and cyber security culture; Adequate protection of Sicredi's information and information assets against improper access or unauthorized;Communication, recording and adequate treatment of information security and cyber security incidents.Destination of information only for purposes duly approved by Sicredi;Acquisition and secure development of information systems;Observance of information security guidelines, objectives and controls and cybersecurity of Sicredi by employees and users; Sicredi does not send emails or make calls requesting member data, access passwords, images or card data, access token, identification code or updates;Local development03Chapter28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG Sicredi Integração RS/MG has expanded its opening hours, which is one of the actions carried out during the pandemic. Started in 2020, this action was maintained for greater convenience to members. In the South branches (Lajeado São Cristóvão, Florestal, Centro, Conventos and Sicredi Companies; Mato Leitão; Santa Clara do Sul; Cruzeiro do Sul; Boqueirão do Leão and Progresso) is open from 9:30 am to 4 pm for requests from individuals and legal entities along with product and service collaborators. For internal cashiers, the opening hours continue to be from 10am to 3pm. For those in Minas (Conselheiro Lafaiete, Itabirito, Ouro Branco, Cachoeira do Campo, Congonhas, Entre Rios de Minas and Mariana), service runs from 10am to 4pm. The measure demonstrates the attention of cooperative financial institution with its public, which constantly seeks to update itself to demands. With more time available, it also provides the opportunity to increase relationships with its associates, offering solutions and alternatives that help individuals and companies. Improving well-being and social equality are also on our radar. Through some of our products and services we can significantly reduce environmental risks and the scarcity of resources.Extended opening hours Green economy In this aspect we can mention financing programs aimed at the countryside, such as direct planting funding lines, Moderagro and Inovagro; sustainable consortium; and credit for solar energy. Members have more time to be served at branches 29 Local development In the case of Solar Energy, more than R$26.4 million in credit were released in 2021. And the trend is upward. With the constant readjustments in the charging for electricity, this emerges as one of the best alternatives for reducing costs. This type of energy can be consumed by commercial, residential or rural establishments, being a clean, renewable and sustainable option, in addition to guaranteeing an immediate financial return. The drop in costs with installing a solar energy system is around 95%, and in financing simulations, an equivalence is generally observed between the value of the installment and the distributor's invoice paid so far. Farmer Alberto Danieli, from Sério, looked for an alternative for integrating poultry. Solar energy came to alleviate the costs of property and housing, which were between R$3,500 and R$4,000 per month on the electricity bill. The investment of R$ 215 thousand made through Sicredi Integração RS/MG included the installation of 198 photovoltaic panels. The high value of the electricity bill was the main motivation for Telmo Valmir Fischer, from Boqueirão do Leão, opt for the photovoltaic system. Especially because, by installing 26 panels on the family property, he seeks to produce enough to supply two homes and his restaurant.Green economyWatch videos with stories from members 30 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG We are building a more prosperous society together. Our results in 2021 One of the ways to demonstrate the good performance of the cooperative is through its net equity, which is formed by the sum of Reserves + Share capital + Surplus. With increasing results each year, they represent solidity and security for members. Solidity and security Total Credit Net Equity Managed resources Accumulated Surplus2018 R$ 466,487 ,106 R$ 189,165,140 R$ 1,533,915,296 R$ 29,280,2402019 R$ 632,861. 564 R$ 217,672,943 R$ 1,886,213,864 R$ 33,620,4852020 R$ 9 01. 8 37.26 3 R$ 243,416,905 R$ 2,696,348,680 R$ 32,826,1902021 R$ 1,235 ,565,716 R$ 282,052,539 R$ 3,424,906,593 R$ 46,328,771The financial performance of our cooperative proves the constant growth of the main indicators, generating a positive impact on members and on the economic and social development of the regions where we are present. All of this also has to do with expansion and new members, which at the end of 2021 totaled 64,802, that is, 13.5% more than in the previous year. In the comparison between 2020 and 2021, total credit increased by 37%; and in accumulated surpluses, an increase of 41%. The managed resources, which already exceed R$3 billion, increased by 27% in the period. Funds raised also increased by 23% and net equity was 15.9% higher. Data: base of financial statements.31 Local Development Everyone already knows how much we prioritize the service and development of communities. Shared results But sharing results with our associates is part of our philosophy. We do this by paying interest to the share capital and distributing surpluses (results). Accumulated SurplusTotal SurplusInterest on capitalResults (R$)The value for each member varies depending on the use of financial solutions; and the more you move, the more expressive your participation will be. From 2020 to 2021 we had a growth of 41.1% in accumulated surpluses and 37.2% in interest on capital. 201829.280.2401.836.35931.116.599 2019 2020 20211.828.20235.448.687 33.620.48534.047.814 1.221.624 32.826.1901.675.81448.004.585 46.328.77132 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG 2018 2019 2020 2021 Demand deposit R$ 112,494 ,539 R$ 136,145,109 R$ 252,466,887 R$ 288,059 .751 Term deposit Savings Funds 2018 2019 2020 2021LCA R$ 3,559,185 R$ 13,936,687 R$ 16,652,110 R$ 31,198,943 Pensions R$ 15,183,641 R$ 20,451,395 R$ 27,050 .321 R$ 35,668. 815Share Capital R$38,385,289 R$42,703,960 R$45,891,954 R$49,901,147Resources Raised R$878,263,050 R$ 1,035,679,356 R$ 1,551,094,512 R$ 1,907,288,338 is the universe of members investing in our credit cooperative. These are individuals and legal entities who used investment products with a vision of the future and security to grow. 25,360 Investment resources R$ 515,877,313 R$ 168,051,319 R$ 63,097,053 R$ 560,940,580 R$ 207, 914,519 R$ 96,291,066 R$ 866,361,808 R$ 264,999,064 R $103,564,322R$1,122. 917,792 R$ 314,482,270 R$ 114,960,76733 Local Development With Rooted in the countryside, Sicredi has a long partnership with agribusiness. We are the main financial institution in the sector and the most partner, always at the side of rural producers to meet their demands and support investments. With our products and solutions, we seek to value family farming and the entire agribusiness production chain, adding income and quality of life.Stronger agribusiness Release of Rural Credit exceeded R$99 million in 2021Proagro Proagro (Agricultural Activity Guarantee Program) offers security to rural producers who take out credit transferred through the National Program for Strengthening Family Farming (Pronaf), being able to count on coverage amounts made available in times of impact on production. In the case of 2021, all movements were due to the drought. In 2021, there were 130 activations: Crops: 124 Corn5 Soy1 Beans Costing and Marketing R$ 35,466,311 Commercial and CPR (Rural Product Certificate) R$ 5,083,260 Investments R$ 59,252,45134 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG We are the ideal partner to monitor and help members in all their achievements. We contribute to each person's growth with appropriate financial solutions, offering products and services in a simple and accessible way, whether for individuals, companies or agribusinesses. R$ 10.4 million was the sum of the amount released in vehicle credit , just for Credit Platform for Sicredi Integração RS/MG Business Partners. The year 2021 was marked by advances, in which we gained more than 27 partners, including resellers and concessionaires. We reached 118 new associates and had 262 business operations. In the construction materials and furniture sector, we signed 5 new partners, representing 17 operations and more than R$95 thousand in credit released. The Platform emerged from the cooperative's partnership with companies in the following segments: vehicles (dealerships and resales), solar energy, construction and renovation, agricultural inputs and furniture. R$ 16.2 million This is the amount released through consortia, the equivalent of 167 quotas. Solutions that cooperate with development + R$ 1.2 billion It was the value of the Cooperative's credit portfolio (total resources in credit with members) on December 31, 2021R$ 126,404,062 R$ 637,294,064Released Commercial Credit - Individuals and Legal Entity: R$763,698,12613,336 m² This is the size of the area that would be possible to build, considering the average CUB of 2021 in RS for the more than R$31 million released in real estate credit in the year. The real estate sector has evolved significantly, both in credit releases and in the number of services, the numbers have doubled in the last year. In total, there were 142 operations that helped make members’ dreams come true. PF PJ35 Local Development During pandemic, we were agile and created emergency lines to help with members' main needs. In addition to credit, we extended deadlines and made it more flexible for those whose company was closed. R$ 286 million This was our revenue from acquiring, exclusively through Sicredi card machines. The Sicredi card machine has all the features of the others on the market, but with one big difference: it comes with the culture of always being close and making a difference to the 2,149 Commercial Establishments that use the solution. Pandemic aid We released more than R$35.7 million through the National Support Program for Micro and Small Businesses (Pronampe), Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE), Working Capital and Folha Covid and K-Giro. 22% 4% 2% 71%PESE WORKING CAPITAL AND COVID PAYROLL (Own Resources) PRONAMPEK-GIRO 36 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG “Cooperate for a sustainable financial life”: this is the purpose that moves us. With the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program, Sicredi makes an innovative commitment, bringing transformation to communities through awareness-raising actions with different audiences. At Sicredi Integração RS/MG, we believe that working with the Program enables the growth of future generations, providing them with a new perspective on how to relate to money. Activities carried out by students in the Program At the regional level, we work with 4th and 5th year students from 13 schools in five municipalities (Travesseiro, Santa Clara do Sul, Mato Leitão, Lajeado and Progresso), involving around 100 teachers and impacting more than 400 students. Access more information on the website 37 Local Development A Semana National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week) is an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF) that has taken place annually since 2014 and aims to promote financial education actions in the country. The 2021 edition took place from November 8th to 14th and Sicredi Integração RS/MG marked its participation with a treasure hunt proposed to eight schools in Lajeado, Santa Clara do Sul, Progresso, Travesseiro and Mato Leitão, all integrated into the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis.National Financial Education Week The initiative aimed to promote awareness about the importance of financial education in people's routine, linked to knowledge as the greatest legacy and cooperating towards a more sustainable life. The treasure hunt comprised three missions completed by students throughout the week and culminated in the delivery of a teaching kit, consisting of pencils and activity notebooks. 38 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Integração RS/MG The A União Faz a Vida Program is the main education program of the Sicredi System and aims to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. In the cooperative, it already takes place in Lajeado, Travesseiro, Mato Leitão, Santa Clara do Sul and Progresso, covering 28 municipal schools and involving approximately 280 teachers and more than 900 students in 2021. School cooperatives provide leadership training and differentiated teamwork, through the experience of a cooperative model sustainable. The project consists of associations of young people from the 6th to the 9th year that develop actions for the benefit of their members. Program served more than 900 students in 2021Project covers young people from 6th to 9th grade with leadership and teamwork training. In these municipalities, activities are ongoing and consultancy assists in the development of new projects. A school management course is also offered, which helps to train principals, vice-presidents and pedagogical coordinators. In the region, there are four schools in Lajeado that already have their cooperatives, where preparation work for the assemblies and election of new directors and fiscal and administrative councils. The young members also started the Cooperlândia Game, an interactive form of learning that brings a new cooperation methodology. 39 Local Development We believe that with the strength of our union we can make a difference in people's lives, in our community and in the world. And it was thinking about meeting actions of collective interest that contribute to the social development of municipalities that make up our coverage area that we created the Philanthropic Fund, an alternative to financially assist the actions of non-profit entities. The Fund is made up of 2% of the net result (leftovers) of the cooperative from the previous year and, in 2021, covered 144 entities/projects with more than R$656 thousand. Find out more about our area of ​​activity and agencies on the map included in this Report. Associate of Sicredi Integração RS/MG, we thank you for your confidence in another year! Cooperation is the path and we are on it together, building a more prosperous society. instagram facebook youtube linkedin Sicredi Integração RS/MG whatsapp Talk to us on WhatsApp sicredi.com.brPhilanthropic fund distributed more than R$656 thousand in 2021 Access more information on the website