Sicredi Integração Annual Report RS/MG20202222 Sicredi Integração Annual Report RS/MG20202222 SUMMARYWith great satisfaction, we present to you our 2022 Annual Report. In this document, we seek to summarize our main actions and results. It is our responsible and transparent way of acting, accountable to all stakeholders. The material contains information about the profile, strategies and governance, in addition to addressing social impacts. Everything always aligned with the purpose of building a more prosperous society together. With testimonials, photos, maps and infographics, we show our operations in Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais, highlighting the new agencies that prove the assertiveness of investments in the expansion of the credit cooperative. Good reading! Annual Report 2022 | 03Pleasure, we are Sicredi Integração RS/MGConstitution of the first credit cooperative in Latin America, in Nova Petrópolis/RS, currently Sicredi Pioneer RS.Sanctioned by Law No. 5,764/71, which defined the legal regime for cooperative societies. Constitution of Bansicredi, the first private cooperative bank in Brazil, responsible for establishing financial autonomy for cooperatives and allowing more efficient access to the financial market and special financing programs. Trajectory of the Sicredi System 04 | Annual Report 2022HELLO!We are part of the Sicredi system... ... a model of collective economic organization, solid and permanent organization that already has more than 6.4 million members in all states of the country. With a national scope, every day we share our way of “doing things together”, promoting the financial and social development of people and the communities where we operate. When there is a credit cooperative in the municipality, growth is mutual and the benefits shared by everyone: people, economy and society. Below we present some impacts generated by Sicredi. Source: Research FIPE/Sicredi, 2020.granted by a cooperative financial institutionmore in the economyMore than R$48 million injected into the marketincrease in GDP per capita more jobs generatedincrease in the number of commercial establishments Presence in 26 states and the Federal DistrictSicredi becomes a Member of the Global Compact from ONU.Sicredi celebrates 120 years of history in credit cooperativism. Annual Report 2022 | 05 ... Rafael Uhry Agency Manager Lajeado/RS - Florestal Numbers Sicredi System in Brazil 2,4006.4 millionLet's introduce you to our cooperative, Sicredi Integração RS/MG, and a little about its history, which completed 116 years in 2022. Fundação Caixa Econômica e de Empréstimo de LageadoEntry into the SICREDI System under the name of Cooperativa de Crédito Lajeado LTDA100 years of history and change of name to Lajeado Credit Cooperative: Sicredi Vale do Taquari - RSInauguration of the Administrative Center in Lajeado. Achievement of the 50 thousand mark associatesStart of expansion to Minas Gerais, now under the new name of Sicredi Integração RS/MGBrand reach of 75 thousand associates and R$4.4 billion in managed resources. Start of works on the Administrative Center in Conselheiro Lafaiete/MG2022 11 MUNICIPALITIES 09 MUNICIPALITIESSome historical moments of the local cooperative 06 | Annual Report 2022Numbers of Sicredi Integração RS/MG (Data from Dec/2022) associatescollaboratorsTotal surpluses Net equityTotal resources agencies369 + 75 thousand+ R$ 4.4 billion + R$ 320 million+ 74 miRAnnual Report 2022 | 07Sicredi Integração Annual Report RS/MG20202222 Roberta Salvini Accountant, lawyer and member of the Board of Directors... Annual Report 2022 | 09 Graziela Reis Bogorni | Executive Director Luiz Mário Leite Berbigier | Vice President Adilson Metz | President With or without a crisis, Sicredi Integração RS/MG is with its members. Because a cooperative doesn't look at a community and evaluate how it can extract profit, but how to generate development. And then we have this situation: a cooperative is strong when the community is strong. It doesn't make sense if it isn't like that. As well, society also needs to embrace its organization, so that both can grow and generate development.” Word from the Council and Management The photos on this page were taken at the laying of the cornerstone of the Administrative Headquarters in Conselheiro Lafaiete/MGLiviane Bald | Operations Director It was a year marked by the opening of agencies, expansion and new features as a vehicle acting as a traveling agency. We continue with projects for more openings in MG and RS, looking closely at those structures that need more physical space, always thinking about improving service and relationships with members. We are advanced in our expansion project, including exceeding delivery and financial viability expectations. Sicredi Integração RS/MG continues to focus on development of cooperativism. And one of our initiatives with great results is the exchange between members from RS and MG, promoting trips for Minas Gerais and Gauchos to learn about the structure of the cooperative, culture and economy. In this way, we increasingly integrate the two states, strengthening the fact that we are a single cooperative and our purpose is to develop the two communities together. We increasingly want to be closer to our members. We call this business with purpose. AND a new work that we are developing with the teams to meet our audience and really know what they need. It's challenging, but the essence is to be even closer to do business. It is not about defining what the cooperative aims to achieve, but rather knowing what the member wants or needs and being more assertive. Our organizational structure is... CORE COORDINATORS There are 195 representatives elected by the members. They have the role of taking the matters of interest and core decisions for the cooperative's general assemblies.... transparent and democratic. We have a governance model that generates security for members, protagonists in management and active actors in the voting process. 10 | Annual Report 2022Soraide Graf Core Coordinator Lajeado/RS... Part of the Cooperative Core Coordinators They are linked to the cooperatives through capital contributions and have the right to vote through assemblies, with equal weight regardless of the volume of resources applied. ASSOCIATES In-person meetingEXECUTIVE BOARD OF FISCAL COUNCIL BOARD OF DIRECTORS Appointed by the Board of Directors and responsible for the executive management of the business. It is made up of an executive director – Graziela Reis Bogorni; and an operations director – Liviane Bald. REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENTS Sicredi Integração RS/MG has two Regional Development Managers (GRDs). In RS, the person responsible is Fabrício Diedrich and in MG Fabrício Closs, who work with the aim of providing full support to branch managers, seeking business development, the solidity of the credit cooperative and the image of the financial institution. Supervises compliance with the Administration's legal and statutory duties. Permanent Fiscal Councilors Dani Jose Petry Ari Kunzel Luisiane Schardong Alternate Fiscal Councilors Delmar Luis Bruxel Hedi Lied Gehl Geraldo Augusto de Oliveira Quites Responsible for establishing the general, strategic orientation and objectives of the cooperative so that its actions meet the interests of members. Adilson Carlos Metz (president) Luiz Mário Leite Berbigier (vice-president) Delcio Dreissig Auri Schneider Juraci José Rodrigues Marcos Luis Gonzatti Paulo José da Costa Jeferson ThomasMarino da Costa Dilceu Pontin Evanir Diehl Roberta Salvini Katiane Luft Annual Report 2022 | 11Members of the Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board AdministrationFabrício Marcelo Closs Fabrício Volnei Diedrich Graziela Reis Bogorni Liviane BaldAnd for this to work, we need qualified people... ... because, as a cooperative financial institution, Sicredi is made by people for people. And when we place our employees at the center of decisions, valuing their perception, improving their experience and building together an environment of trust, respect, diversity and innovation, we increase the positive impact we generate to all associates. It's our virtuous circle, day by day, happening from the inside out.Fórum Integra RS/MG 2022 - event with all employees, in December/2022 12 | Annual Report 2022 All employees in our region receive initial training when they join the team, from basic training to strengthen the cooperative culture and knowledge of the Sicredi System, to activities to develop their role, combined with the system's strategies and focused on business. Furthermore, several moments - in person and online - are generated throughout the year to train, integrate and update the different professionals who work in the cooperative. Employees in a workshop for the development of the SICREDI APRENDE system Sicredi Aprendi is a virtual learning environment that aims to promote the professional and personal development of employees. It is an intuitive, interactive and 100% online tool that intensifies learning, in addition to encouraging each person's protagonism in this process. EMPLOYEE TRAINING Marianna Vilhena Manager Cachoeira do Campo Agency - Ouro Preto/MG... CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRAINING During this year, the governance of our cooperative underwent an intense training, based on the foundations of Conscious Capitalism and the New Economy. Developed between the months of April and August, it was led by the co-founder of Movimento Capitalismo Conscious, Thomas Eckschmidt. The topics covered were: GPTW Great Place to Work (GPTW) is a Global consultancy that supports organizations to obtain the best results through a culture of trust, high performance and innovation. For the second year in a row, Sicredi Integração RS/MG was certiﬁed by GPTW as an excellent company to work for. Based on the climate survey, in which employees contribute their perceptions about what it is like to work at Sicredi, the The result achieved (confidence index) was 90%. With the promotion of local innovations among our priorities, on April 19 of this year the internal program InoveSi was launched, which stimulates the innovative and creative capacity of employees. In this channel it is possible to register ideas and suggestions aimed at improving or generating value in the most diverse areas of the cooperative. Launch of InoveSi took place with synchronized events in RS and MG Counselors, directors and GRDs graduates from training Annual Report 2022 | 13 Corporate Governance and new proposals; Trends and evolutionary purpose; Value creation and interdependence; Responsible culture; Servant leadership. At the cooperative we work with more than 300 financial solutions... ... in other words, they can find everything the member needs. The products offered exist to meet demands and provide satisfaction and equal benefits to members. Above all, they collaborate in carrying out projects personal and professional, with effects also on the economic and social life of our community. To prove all this, we invited our friend Diana to share her relationship with Sicredi with us. Hello! Nice to meet you, my name is Diana. I am 30 years old, married and have been a member of Sicredi Integração RS/MG for over 10 years. I make my daily transactions, pay bills, take advantage of PIX, credit cards, in addition to having already taken out life and car insurance. You know, I'm celebrating the construction of my house. It was thanks to the real estate consortium with which I was awarded that this dream is coming true! I love the practicality of Internet Banking self-service and the application, through which I pay the salaries of my three employees, organize the financial flow, receive and pay bills. Furthermore, I have business insurance to protect my flower shop. I live among flowers, in the flower shop that I opened with a line of credit negotiated with the Sicredi. The partnership makes my day-to-day life easier because I can offer several payment options to customers, such as a card machine and fee-free PIX. I learned early from my father Adão about the importance of saving and investing. He and my mother still live in the countryside, farm and have some animals. They will continue in the rural area, especially since they are now managing to diversify production with fruit and vegetables, as a result of an agro credit line that he obtained in his Sicredi agency. My father often goes there and speaks directly to the manager, he prefers it that way. 14 | Annual Report 2022Matheus Francisco Engster Businessman and associate at Agência Lajeado Conventos/RS... I'm sure that other demands will come and Sicredi will be able to meet me, after all, it has everything for me, for my business and for my family's agribusiness. 2022, this translated into these results: NPS EXCELLENCE IN MEMBER SATISFACTION Methodology used worldwide, Net Promoter Score (NPS) indicates the degree of customer satisfaction and loyalty towards a company. In our case, those associated with the credit union. According to 2021 surveys, we recorded a 78.26% NPS performance. It means that we are in an area of ​​excellence in the evaluated criteria, demonstrating reliability with Sicredi. It is worth remembering: a random selection of members is made every year to determine this index. TERM DEPOSITS: + R$ 1.4 billion + R$ 348 million + R$ 1.5 billion CASH DEPOSITS: TOTAL CREDIT: If you are triggered, participate and give your opinion! The research is quick and essential for us to continue improving for you. Fabiano Pavi Agency Manager Progresso/RS... ... after all, Sicredi Integração RS/MG is a non-profit credit cooperative, which belongs to its members and is dedicated to offering financial solutions and satisfying their needs. All this, of course, without forgetting to think about the communities where it operates. Because the member's well-being is worth a lot. Why Sicredi is different: These results enable us to do a lot for communities... When a person joins, they deposit a sum of money that is called a share. The cooperative's share capital is the sum of its members' shares. Therefore, it is variable and increases with each new member. Part of the positive result of the cooperative is shared among members. The price varies depending on the movement financial, that is, the greater the amount and the operations carried out, the greater the return. Our cooperative reserves 5% of its annual financial result for the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES). The objective is to invest resources in our members, their families and collaborators, being applied in social programs, assemblies, training and lectures. DISTRIBUTION OF LEFTOVERS: FATES: INTEREST ON CAPITAL: + R$ 5.9 million Every year, members receive interest on the share capital paid up in the business is proportionally paid, paid at the average Selic rate for the year in effect. + R$ 11.5 million 5% of the result SOCIAL CAPITAL: + R$ 60.8 million Total in Dec/2022 Amount credited to members in Dec/2022 Amount credited to members in Apr/2022 16 | Annual Report 2022Sidney Geraldo Fernandes Businessman - Associate Agência Cachoeira do Campo Ouro Preto/MG... As you saw, we managed to generate a lot of positive impact on communities... ... this is because Sicredi Integração RS/MG's mission is to improve the quality of life of its members and society. And one of the ways found to achieve this task are social programs, which provide resources to subsidize projects and actions in our area of ​​activity. Discover our cooperative development programs on this and the next pages.... The Social/Philanthropic Fund supports projects of collective interest from associated entities non-profit focused on education, safety and health. Composed of 2% of the cooperative's net result, it is synonymous with the 7th principle of cooperativism: interest in the community. In 2022: We received more than R$ 1.8 million in requests 112 institutions were covered More than R$ 940 thousand distributed Symbolic delivery to entities benefited by the Social Fund 2022 Annual Report 2022 | 17Alessandro Pereira Weber Administrative Manager at Dr. Anuar Elias Hospital Aesse, Boqueirão do Leão/RS... Launched on March 1st, our anniversary, the Fazer Juntos program marked 116 years of the cooperative with investment in the development of our communities. Under the motto “Here, investment and solidarity have everything to do with #FazerTogether”, the program supported non-profit entities in the cooperative's area of ​​coverage that aim at social entrepreneurship, education, culture, health, security, sport and social projects that contribute to the improving the quality of life of associates and society. Through Fazer Juntos, for each new application in the Sicredinvest, Sicredinvest Flex, Sicredinvest Evolutivo, Sicredinvest Exclusivo, pre-fixed RDC and Poupança products, the member nominated an entity qualified to receive the donation of 0.15% on the amount invested, at no cost to him. The 2022 resources were passed on to the beneficiaries in December, limited to R$ 10 thousand per institution. The Sicredi volunteer movement is an initiative that aims to encourage employees and associates to act as citizens, through solidarity actions that are aligned with local development. C Day (Cooperate Day) is always celebrated on the first Saturday of July - International Cooperative Day -, and in 2022 it mobilized dozens of Sicredi Integração RS/MG employees in charitable activities inspired by the theme “simple attitudes move the world”, demonstrating the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. In 2022: 16 actions carried out More than 80 volunteers The entire community benefited directly and indirectlyAmount invested: R$106 million More than R$149 thousand in allocations 132 entities covered in 18 municipalitiesIn 2022: Volunteers in action to revitalize the square in Progresso-RS Annual Report 2022 | 19Fabrícia Cristina Beppleri Associate from Cruzeiro do Sul/RS who contributed to Fazer Juntos... We believe in the strength of cooperative education... ... and, in addition to dedicated attention to the community and membership, our cooperative is constantly concerned with the future and development of people, valuing the impact of education on them. Therefore, through Fundação Sicredi, it carries out programs that aim to teach cooperative and leadership practices and that guide young people and adults so that they can have a healthier, more efficient and sustainable financial life. The School Cooperatives program allows young people from 6th to 9th grade experience experiences with the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, developing skills such as leadership, social entrepreneurship, financial education and social inclusion. The project consists of a series of pedagogical practices focused on the creation and maintenance of a cooperative, in which students, voluntarily, learn about the routines and conduct of a sustainable business model and promote actions for the benefit of their members. Held in 4 municipalities (Lajeado/RS, Progresso/RS, Mato Leitão/RS and Boqueirão do Leão/RS)7 participating schools 12 teachers involved More than 150 associated studentsIn 2022: Work carried out at PUFV during the yearSchool cooperative assembly 20 | Annual Report 2022Camila Ferreira da Silva Former president of COOPVIDA, EMEF Vida Nova... For more than 25 years, the A União Faz a Vida (PUFV) Program has promoted the construction and experience of attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship, through through education practices cooperative. Through it, children and adolescents are involved in comprehensive learning that values ​​knowledge, community spaces and collective activities. The objective is to form fairer, more supportive and entrepreneurial citizens who respect diversity and engage in dialogue to make decisions. Held in 8 municipalities (Lajeado/RS, Travesseiro/RS, Mato Leitão/RS, Santa Clara do Sul/RS, Progresso/RS, Cruzeiro do Sul/RS, Forquetinha/RS and Mariana/MG) 31 participating schools More than 450 teachers involved Around 1,200 students benefited In 2022: Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis is guided by the understanding that financial education can transform our relationship with money. The program seeks not only to teach, but to make a commitment to help in the search for financial balance through good habits and more conscious decision-making, based on concepts of behavioral economics. It is subdivided according to its target audience and in 2021 comprised the Journey in Schools and the pilot project of Financial Education Training for Employees. Centered on our cooperative essence and which represents an important step in being able to promote a positive change in the financial lives of our associates and communities, our employees go through a stage training. From there, they become action multiplier agents, ensuring that they are simple and adaptable to different realities. Are also guided in their personal practices, in order to apply knowledge in their private routines and activities. In 2022, we developed the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis program with agency managers, bringing them even closer to the guidelines proposed by Sicredi and preparing them to work with the community. Complete training for teachers with a pedagogical proposal that connects them with the reality of communities through a simple methodology that uses situations and everyday objects to develop the theme connected with the school curriculum of the 4th and 5th year classes of Elementary School. Fundação Sicredi has a partnership with Mauricio de Souza Produções (Turma da Mônica) to make the teaching materials used in the program more didactic. JOURNEY IN SCHOOLS In 2022: Held in 6 municipalities (Lajeado/RS, Santa Clara do Sul/RS , Travesseiro/RS, Mato Leitão/RS, Progresso/RS and Itabirito/MG) 14 participating schools More than graduates and 45 teachers involved around 400 studentsJOURNEY FOR EMPLOYEES Class made up of cooperative leaders Annual Report 2022 | 21Bruna Ferla Horst Teacher at Colégio Sinodal Conventos, Lajeado/RS... Comics from Turma da Mônica special financial education series Our members are encouraged to become protagonists of decisions... ... defining the direction of the cooperative. As business owners, they are the ones who approve the meeting agendas and determine the next steps of our region. And so that these decisions are conscious and have the participation of as many associates as possible, we carry out programs and projects that integrate them into our routines, promote knowledge about cooperativism and develop leadership. Find out what they are: The MG and RS delegations project connects the people of Rio Grande do Sul and Minas Gerais covered by our region. In the case of Minas Gerais, the groups are formed by leaders and representatives from different segments that travel to Rio Grande do Sul for a week of immersion in the structure and dynamics of Sicredi, learning in practice the transparency of our business and the solidity achieved in the region. The itinerary also includes visits to member properties or businesses and a tour of the Serra Gaucha, considered the cradle of cooperatives in the country. The delegations from Rio Grande do Sul are made up of nucleus coordinators and counselors who travel to the state of Minas Gerais with the aim of verifying the model expansion and ratify the work developed at that location. The training course for core coordinators is held annually and aims to develop new leadership in terms of cooperative education, the evolution of Sicredi as a System and corporate governance. Held in five meetings, it concludes with a study visit to Minas Gerais and makes its participants capable of representing the groups in which they were elected. 34 center coordinators trained20 hours/training classCOORDINATOR TRAINING Delegations from Minas Gerais visiting the Administrative Headquarters of the Cooperative (E) and Nova Petrópolis (D), cradle of cooperativismClass on study trip to Minas Gerais In 2022: 02 delegations from Rio Grande do Sul 27 people06 delegations from Minas Gerais 138 peopleIn 2022 : 22 | Annual Report 2022 The Crescer Program is based on the 5th principle of Cooperativism, which deals with Education, Training and Information, and aims to bring knowledge of cooperativism to everyone the audiences that interact with our business. This knowledge allows members to participate more appropriately in decisions about the direction of the cooperative, qualifying participation in the sustainable development of our institution. The Pertencer Program aims to guarantee the transparency of the system, bringing members closer to the day-to-day activities of the cooperative and encouraging him to participate in decisions and monitor the implementation of what was planned. It occurs through core meetings and assemblies, general assembly and other events, in addition to daily relationships at agencies. 12,371 members participated in the Core Assemblies Core Assembly held digitally 45 days was the period open for voting In 2022: + 150 meetings Promoted by 25 agencies of the cooperative More than 5 thousand participants In 2022: Ordinary General Assembly in person with Core Coordinators Encontro Crescer special: Pink October - Administrative Headquarters of the Cooperative in Lajeado/RS Annual Report 2022 | 23Antônio Augusto Dias (Tonho) Associate at Agência Jeceaba/MG... Jonatas José Marchi Associate at Agência de Progresso/RS Participant of the Crescer Program... We are recognized for what we do... ... and our performance in different economic indices , social actions or work with communities puts Sicredi’s name in local, national and even international awards. Research by Grupo A Hora, from Lajeado/RS, which revealed the most remembered companies and leaders in six micro-regions: Arroio do Meio, Encantado, Estrela, Lajeado, Taquari and Teutônia. Sicredi Integração RS/MG came in 1st place in the Credit Cooperative segment. Sicredi ranked 4th among the best financial institutions in Brazil in the World's Best Banks ranking, carried out by Forbes in partnership with the statistics company Statista. The result places Sicredi three positions above the previous survey, relating to 2021. By For the fifth consecutive year, Sicredi was highlighted in the annual ranking of economic projections released by the Central Bank. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi took 2nd place in the ''IPCA for the Annual Medium Term indicator'' category and Sicredi Asset, the cooperative financial institution's resource manager, took 5th place in the ''Annual Short Term Exchange Rate' category ''. The Sicredi application was awarded in the “2022 Digital Growth Award” category, which recognizes solutions that promote financial inclusion, innovation and scalability. The award took place during the World Conference of Credit Unions, held in Scotland, in July.TOP 100 – Grupo A Hora FOCUS – Annual Ranking of Central Bank Projections FORBES DIGITAL GROWTH AWARDThe institution came in 8th place in the classification of the 100 Largest Banks in the Valor 1000 yearbook, from Jornal Valor Econômico, rising one position in relation to the previous year's ranking. Furthermore, Sicredi also stood out in other categories of the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. In 2022, the ranking classified Sicredi as 7th among the best fixed income fund managers. For the third consecutive year, Sicredi was highlighted in the Top 100 Open Corps award, which maps and recognizes the corporations most open to innovation in Brazil. In addition to being among the 50 companies selected in the general ranking, we won 2nd place in the “Financial Services” category. The Cooperation program at Ponta do Lápis was nominated and elected by popular vote as the best Financial Education Initiative in the 2022 Banking Transformation Awards, whose purpose is to promote, encourage and value the main cases in the sector, highlighting innovative projects. The choice was made online by people and experts in the category, who evaluated how these actions promote positive impacts on society. BANKING TRANSFORMATION AWARD 2022 VALOR 1000 TOP 100 CORPS 2022 TOP ASSET 24 | Annual Report 2022 Fabrício Volnei Diedrich Regional Business Development Manager... Annual Report 2022 | 25 It is a model that works so well that we are expanding our coverage and reaching more members... ... as is the case in Minas Gerais. In 2022, we opened three more agencies on Minas Gerais soil and expanded our structure at the Lajeado-Conventos agency, in Rio Grande do Sul. We presented our purpose of building a more prosperous society together and the response is the best possible: new associates and reinforcement of both relationships and business. In total, Sicredi Integração RS/MG has 26 branches in operation (16 in RS and 10 in MG). NEW AGENCIES REFORM AND EXPANSIONIt is the second agency of Sicredi Integração RS/MG in the city of approximately 130 thousand inhabitants.Opening: March 9 Physical area: 540 m² Employees: 11 City with approximately 5.3 thousand inhabitants, has a prominent presence in the sectors of industry, services and commerce. Opening: July 5th Physical area: 200 m² Employees: 4 Counselor Lafaiete/Praça | MG Jeceaba | MG The municipality has an economic predominance of mining and has around 40 thousand inhabitants. Opening: November 23rd Physical area: 370 m² Collaborators: 7Brumadinho | MG The unit had its area redesigned, increasing individual and corporate services by 40 m², as well as providing more space for the comfort of members. Reopening: July 4 Physical area: 280 m² Employees: 13 Associates: more than 3.3 thousand Lajeado - Convents | RS 26 | Annual Report 2022The administrative headquarters serve as support for the entire service and service structure of Sicredi Integração RS/MG. We have one in Lajeado (RS) and, this year, work began on the future headquarters in Conselheiro Lafaiete (MG). The building that houses the administrative headquarters in Lajeado was inaugurated in 2017. With 6.4 thousand m², it draws attention for its grandeur, architecture and finishes, translating the pillars of transparency, solidity and the open arms to the community. There is an agency, auditorium, board rooms and work environments that house more than 80 employees and make up part of the regional superintendency. Information technology, financial, legal, credit, business development, call center, back office, people and relationship management (marketing and cooperative development programs) are some of the areas operating in the spaces. with training rooms, Council, Memorial and living space. The work on the Administrative Headquarters in Conselheiro Lafaiete, with 2,500 m², is scheduled to be completed in 2024. In November, the symbolic act of laying the foundation stone took place, bringing together management, collaborators and leaders from Minas Gerais. This is an investment of R$25 million, strategic for the ten branches already in operation and the expansion projects in the region. The building will have four floors: basement with 11 parking spaces, storage and generator; first floor with two business agencies, one focusing on companies and the other aimed at the agricultural public across the region; on the second floor the administrative headquarters; and in the third meeting and training rooms. Administrative headquarters Administrative Headquarters in Lajeado/RS Project of the Administrative Headquarters in Conselheiro Lafaiete/MG Works of the Administrative Headquarters of Minas Gerais, in Dec/2022 Collaborators at the inauguration of the cornerstone of the Administrative Center Annual Report 2022 | 27 Our itinerant agency is one of the new features implemented this year. It is a vehicle fully adapted to function as if it were a conventional agency, just not handling cash. With this structure, we go to events and fairs, in addition to being present in cities where we do not yet operate to promote the credit cooperative and prospect new members. Inside there is everything we need: technology, furniture, air conditioning and employees prepared to open accounts, do business, offer products and services. It's the way we make it possible to meet our associates and get closer to those who don't know us yet. Mobile Agency meets our associates! Discover the first Mobile Agency with Sicredi Operating System in Brazil. To ensure the safety of associates and employees, there will be no cash transactions. 28 | Annual Report 2022Alexssander Gonçalves de Carvalho and Helmara Lúcia Santiago de Carvalho Associados Agência de Itabirito|MG... Financial solutions that come to you. Sicredi Integração RS/MG Annual Report 2022 | 29Rio Grande do SulArea of ​​operation in 11 municipalities 16 agencies 30 | Annual Report 2022Annual Report 2022 | 3132 | Annual Report 2022Minas GeraisArea of ​​operation in 9 municipalities 10 agencies Annual Report 2022 | 33Annual Report Sicredi Integração RS/MG20202222WhatsApp (51) 3358 4770To you as a member, Thank you very much! We already have more than 75 thousand members and all the assets we have built are the result of what we did in partnership, together! We thank you for your trust and involvement throughout this year. It is the result of this close and true relationship that our credit union grows. We will continue to value relationships and offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. RELATIONSHIP CHANNELS Member, you choose how you want to be served at Sicredi Integração RS/MG! Whatever your alternative, we will serve you in a simple, close and active way. Annual Report 2022 | 35 www.sicredi.com.br/coop/integracaorsmgFollow the Cooperative on Social Networks: Instagram @sicrediintegracaorsmgFacebook /sicrediintegracaorsmgLinkedIn Sicredi Integração RS/MGYouTube @SicrediIntegracaoRSMGAgências We have a special team prepared just for this service, made up of five people. O channel was implemented in 2022 and serves both to clarify doubts and also has a business nature. Everything is done in an interactive, simple and direct way, so that the member has all their demands fully resolved. Service is from Monday to Friday, from 9am to 5pm.Service in PortugueseService in LibrasSicredi Integração RS/MG Graphic design: Espaço Vivo Comunicação