Page 9 of 31 BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT COOPERATIVA DOS Méolcos E PROFESSIONAIS DE SAIJDE DE sAo Luis — SICREDI sAo LUIS CHAPTER I DENOMINATION, HEADQUARTERS, FORD, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Segio I Name, headquarters, Forum , Area of ​​A950 and Term of Duragﬁo Art. 19 The Credit Cooperative of Doctors and Health Professionals of 850 Luis — Sicredi S50 Luis, established at the general meeting of March 13, 2002, originally called Credit Cooperative, is a financial institution, cooperative, non-profit and limited liability company, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I — headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction, located at 5 Avenida Daniel de La Touche, 903, room SUC 317E, Shopping da Ilha, COHAMA, CEP 65074-115, S50 Luis, in this State of Maranhéio; ll - agfio area, always endorsed by the Sicredi North/Northeast Central, limited to the municipalities of S50 Luis, S50 José de Ribamar, Paco do Lumiar, Raposa, Bacabaeiras, Santa Rita and Rosario all in the state of Maranhao. Ill — indefinite duration. Section II integration with Sicredi Art. 29 The Company, upon joining the Sicredi Central North/Northeast Cooperative, hereinafter referred to as "Central", integrates, with this and the other affiliates, the Sicredi — Cooperative Credit System, governing itself, also, by its regulations. § 19 0 Cooperative Credit System — Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (confederagﬁo Sicredi), Sicredi Participagoes S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System ( Fundagﬁo Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 29 The Cooperative will only be able to disaffiliate from Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, guaranteed participation and expression of the respective Central in the conclave and in core assemblies with associates, of which must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 39 The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditional on compliance, in particular: I — systemic norms on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer programs and Belonging, in accordance with specific regulations; II — limits relative is asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally deﬁned by the System; Ill — of Sicredi’s official regulations and internal regulations. § 49 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. Classification of informagﬁaz Internal Use Page 10 of 31 § 5'-' The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in the event of risk to the solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 6‘-’ Affiliation to the Central automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, in terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred by movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; Ill — to loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 79 A Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 59 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 89 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Center. § 99 The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and maintain the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports arising from the verification. § 10. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 69 and 79 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11. Central Sicredi North / Northeast as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Confederation Sicredi, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted representation powers, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, organizations and government authorities. § 12. The expression "legislation" includes laws, regulations and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER ll CORPORATE OBJECT Art. 39 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; ll - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, compensation for Classification of information: Internal use Page 11 of 31 checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and investment clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by the current legislation; III — develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination. Art. 49 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in linking those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Candidates for Admission Art. 59 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I — natural persons who are professionals in higher-level healthcare in the following categories: doctors (including veterinarians), social workers, biologists, nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, speech therapists, nutritionists, dentists, psychologists, physical education professionals and occupational therapists and are in full civil capacity who agree with this Statute; II — employees of the Cooperative itself, employees of the legal entities associated with it and those in whose capital it participates, and individuals providing services, on an occasional basis, to the Cooperative and the aforementioned legal entities; III » retirees who, when active, met the statutory criteria for association; IV — parents, spouse or partner, survivor, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member; V — legal entities, established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, whose purpose is the same or related economic activities as associated natural persons, those controlled by these members and non-profit entities, subject to the provisions of current legislation. § 19 The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, which cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 29 To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of quotas—minimum shares provided for in §29 of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 39 N50 will be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative and will not be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation: Classification of information: Internal use Page 12 of 31 I — anyone who may compete with the Cooperative; II — anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost employment with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V — anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI — anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII — anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the membership conditions; IX — anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illegal, under current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI — anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4‘-’ For the purposes of the provisions of items III and IV of art. 59, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered to be bonds. Section II Rights Art. 5'-' S50 rights of associates: I — participate in meetings and core assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III — use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV — propose to the Board of Directors changes to the bylaws and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity found in the management of the Society or a regulatory infraction committed by a member; V — propose to the Board of Directors, prior to publishing the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved at a general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; Classification of information Internal Use Page 13 of 31 VII — have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII - resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 79 S50 duties of members: I — comply with legal provisions, these Statutes, and other internal regulations of the System; II — operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III — pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV — preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out its operations with it financial in general; V — not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI — maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII — keep registration information updated. Linico paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of an associate implies the early expiration of all its obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities that are part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Segﬁion IV Responsibilities Art. 89 05 members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2'—' and 39 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of losses verified in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general meeting, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date The accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred must be approved by the general meeting. § 1‘-’ The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 29 and 39 below. § 29 Associates respond jointly, up to the limit of the value of subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of Liquidity Lines. § 39 In an unlimited manner, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or culpable, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be held liable. Classification of information Internal use Page 14 of 31 Section V Forms of Termination Subsegﬁion I Dismissal Art. 99 The associate's dismissal occurs at his request and cannot be denied. Subsegio ll Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I — Violation of the legislation in force or the Statute, when not apical | its exclusion; II — if the member fails to punctually fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; Ill — breach of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV — carrying out acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, inspector or director. § 19 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 29 Elimination will be preceded by a notification to the member so that within a period of 15 (fifteen) days he/she presents to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in his/her opinion, disqualify the infraction or until he/she substantiated the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 39 The Cooperative had communicated the elimination to the associated party with indication of the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 49 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notice of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect the first general meeting to be held. § 5'3 When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after Once the infractions have been investigated, which will be included in a specific report, the person being investigated/offender will be notified, with the possibility of suspending or removing him, depending on the case, preventively of his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days to present its defense reasons, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 69 In the case of § 59, the Board of Directors may request information additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing these, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or a general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as the case may be. . § 79 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 69 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Classification of information: Internal Use Page 15 of 31 Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs due to: I — dissolution of the legal entity; II — death of the individual; III ~ loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fails to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 59, §39, of this Statute. § 19 Changing the conditions of subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 29A Exclusion based on the provisions of § 39 of article 59 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and varies according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 4,800.00 (Four one thousand and eight hundred reais), which must be paid in currency. § 19 0 share capital is divided into shares—parts valued at R$1.00 (one Real). § 29 A0 to join the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 150 (one hundred and fifty) member shares, which will total RS 150.00 (one hundred and fifty reais) or 50% (fifty percent ) immediately and the remainder in up to O3 (three) subsequent, equal, monthly and consecutive installments § 39 Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, all members, subscribe, to title of Reinforcement of Social Capital, 4,200 (four thousand and two hundred) shares, which will total R$ 4200.00 (four thousand and two hundred reais) which will be paid in up to 168 (one hundred and sixty-eight) monthly installments, equal and consecutive amounts of RS 25.00 (twenty-five reais) equivalent to 25 (twenty-five) shares § 49 For individual members who fall into the category mentioned below, there will be an obligation to subscribe, ordinarily, a minimum number of shares -parts in value of RS 25.00 (twenty-five reais) equivalent to 25 (twenty) shares of R$1.00 (one real) each, subscribed and paid in at the time of association, being: - Associates coming from payroll agreements payment linked to the associated company; § 59 For individual members who fall within the scope of paragraphs § 49 n50, continuous and spontaneous payment will be mandatory. § 69 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete its readmission. § 79 The share is indivisible and non-transferable to no member, and may not be negotiated with them or given as a guarantee. Its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will always be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in their respective electronic register, noting that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total shares. § 89 In the event of dismissals, eliminations or exclusions of members in such a number that the return of capital could affect the economic and financial stability of the cooperative, this power will carry out the judgment of the Board of Directors, within deadlines that protect the continuity of operation of the company § 99 If the member does not comply punctually with the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the Cooperative may be offset, at the discretion of the Cooperative, with their respective shares—shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the shares—capital shares, maintaining their status as a member with the minimum number of shares ~parts established in § 29 of this article. Art. 13. The capital paid in by the member must remain in the Cooperative for a period that allows the regular development of the society and compliance with the established limits by the regulations in force, and any redemption requests may:-"Jo be examined by the Board of Directors. § 19 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, refund—if it is the paid-in capital, added to surpluses or deduction of losses of the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 29 The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet of the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, allowing payment in installments by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and equity conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 39 The member may make redemptions eventual capital shares that exceed the minimum capital required for each member, in accordance with §§§ 19, 29, 39, and, with the exception of § 49, all of Article 12 of these Bylaws, upon request addressed to and approved by the Board of Administration. § 49 When granting the request for possible redemption of shares, the Board of Directors must observe, among others, the following criteria: a) compliance with the minimum limits established by the regulations in force for capital and reference heritage of the Cooperative; b) maintaining the stability inherent to the Cooperative's fixed capital nature; c) compliance with the contractual guarantees of quotas—parties in the credit operations contracted with 2': Cooperative, § 59 If it is impossible to promptly respond to the redemption request, for the reasons listed in paragraphs "a", "b" and "c ” of § 49 of this article, the member will obey the chronological order of the request, with preference for redemption, when the respective framework. § 69 In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation, provided for in art. 368 of the Brazilian Civil Code, between the credit arising from the value of your share—capital part, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Socieclade. Classification of information: Internal use Page 17 of 31 Page 18 of 31 § 79 If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his/her dismissal from the membership took place. In the event of a remaining outstanding balance arising from some obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may collect it through the means permitted by the country's legal system. § 89 The quotas—parts of the capital form part of the company’s assets Cooperative and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. CHAPTER v GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL positions, ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Section I General Provisions Art. 14. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decision interest of the Society, and the deliberations bind everyone, even if absent or discordant. Art. 15. General meetings (ordinary and/or extraordinary) will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, in a triple and cumulative manner, in a single publication, through a notice published in a newspaper and posted in appropriate locations on the premises most frequently frequented by members, in addition to communication through physical circulars or electronic means, obeying the following quorum for installation: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of members, on first call; II — half plus 1 (one) of the number of members, on second call; lll — 10 (ten) members, in the third and final call. § 19 For the purpose of verifying the installation quorum, the number of members present at each call will be determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, § 29 The call may also be made by the Council of Administration, Executive Board or the Fiscal Council, or even by 1/5 (One fifth) of the members, in full enjoyment of their social rights, after a request has not been met, proven within a maximum period of 10 (Ten) days. § 39 N50 Members who have been admitted after being called can participate in the General Assembly. §49 The notice calling for General Assemblies states I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly |" (0rdina’ria and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); ll - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the address of the place where it will be held, which, unless there is a justified reason, will be the registered office; III — the ordinal sequence of convocations and installation quorum; IV - the agenda of the work, with the necessary specifications and, in the case of Statute reform, the precise indication of the matter; Classify, -50 of information Usa Internal Page 19 of 31 V — the number of existing members on the date of its expedition, for the purpose of installation kerum; VI - place, date, name, position/function and signature (5) of the administrators, directors, fiscal councilors, Liquidators or associates who made the call. § 59 The General Assemblies referred to in the caput may be held in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, as long as this condition is included in the call notice. Art. 16. It is the responsibility of the General Assemblies, ordinary or extraordinary measures, the dismissal of the members of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and the members of the Sole Paragraph Fiscal Council. In the event of dismissal that could compromise the regularity of the administration, direction or supervision of the entity, the General Assembly may appoint administrators, until the new ones take office, whose election will take place within a maximum period of 30 (thirty) days. Art. 17. Occupants of statutory offices, as well as any other associates, cannot vote on decisions on matters that refer directly or indirectly to them, including the rendering of accounts and setting of fees, but they will not be deprived of taking part in the respective work. Art. 18. The deliberations of the General Assembly may only deal with the matters set out in the Call Notice. § 19 Decisions on dismissal, appeals and election to social positions as long as there is more than one registered ticket, will be taken by secret vote, with the the rest were carried out through open voting. § 29 What happens at the General Assembly must be included in detailed minutes, drawn up in the proper book, approved and signed by the Executive Director and secretary and by a committee of 6 (six) associates indicated by the plenary session and, furthermore, by as many others as they wish to do so. . § 39 The Minutes of the General Assembly must also include full names, CPF numbers, nationality, marital status, profession, identity card number, date of birth, full address, statutory bodies, positions and terms of office of the elected elements, as well as, in the case of reform of the Bylaws, the full transcription of the reformed articles. Art. 19. The general assembly may be suspended, provided that the location, date and time for the continuation of the session are determined, which appears in the respective minutes until the installation "quorum", verified both at the opening and at the resumption, and that it is respecting the agenda set out in the notice. To the Continuity of the meeting is mandatory for the publication of new notices of call, except if the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the meeting does not make it possible to comply with the legal deadline for this publication. Segﬁo ll Ordinary General Meeting Art. 20. The ordinary general meeting must be held once a year, during the first 04 (four) months, after the end of the fiscal year, and will deliberate on the following matters, which must be included in the order of clia: I - rendering of accounts of the administration bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) annual balance sheet; Classification of information: Internal use Page 20 of 31 c) demonstration of surpluses or losses. ll - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from the insufficiency of contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for the funds statutes; Ill — election of members of the Executive Board, the Administrative and Fiscal Councils; IV — setting the value of fees, bonuses and attendance certificates for members of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council; V — any matters mentioned in the Call Notice, excluding those falling within the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general meeting, Paragraph 11. Approval of the report, balance sheet and accounts of the administration department is not exempts its administrators, members of the administrative and supervisory bodies from responsibility. Segﬁo Ill Extraordinary General Assembly Art. as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Art. 22. It is the exclusive competence of the Extraordinary General Assembly to deliberate on the following matters: I — reform of the Bylaws; II — merger, incorporation or dismemberment; Ill — change in the Company’s purpose; IV — voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V— approval of the liquidator’s accounts; § 19. The votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members present are necessary to make the decisions referred to in this article valid. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 23. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by a Commission Electoral body constituted speciﬁcally for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Cooperative's Administrative Council, its autonomy and independence are ensured, reporting operationally to the same collegiate body. Classification of information: Internal Use Page 21 of 31 CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Segio I Board of Directors Art. 24. The cooperative will be managed by a Board of Directors, elected by the General Assembly among the members who meet the legal, normative and statutory requirements, being composed of 05 (clnuo) members, of which 03 (three) are members of the Executive Board. § 19 N50 relatives of each other up to the second degree in a direct or collateral line may be part of the Board of Directors. § 2‘-’ Participation in the administrative, advisory, fiscal and similar bodies of Sicredi S50 Luis, or exercising management functions therein, is prohibited, people who participate in the administration or hold 5% (five percent) or more of the capital of any other financial institution, except a credit cooperative. § 39 S30 Ineligible, in addition to people prevented by special law, those sentenced to criminal punishment, which prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions, or for bankruptcy crimes, malfeasance, corruption, active or passive, concussion, embezzlement or against the popular economy, public faith and property. § 49 The mandate will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, with those elected remaining in office until their successors take office. § 59 The following constitute, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I — loss of associate status; II — death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; Ill ~ licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; IV - become the ineligible holder in accordance with the regulations in force, or no longer meet the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 6'-' In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a party-political position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention confirming the appointment, under penalty of vacancy from the position. Art. 25. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I v reﬁne, monthly in an ordinary manner, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the request of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the majority of the Board of Directors itself, the Executive Board, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the Chairman of the Board of Directors having the tie-breaking vote; lll — the Council's deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in detailed Minutes, drawn up in the proper Book, read, approved and signed, at the end of the work, by the members of the Board of Directors present. § 19 The call for meetings of the Board of Directors will be, preferably, in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. Classification of information: Internal Use Page 22 of 31 § 29 No advisor may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of personal interest, or that concern your relatives up to the 29th (Second) degree, in a direct or collateral line. § 3‘-’ The meetings of the Board of Directors may be held in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. § 49 If half or more of the Board's positions remain vacant for any period of time, the Executive Director or the remaining members, if the Presidency is vacant, must call a General Assembly to fill the positions. same § 59 Substitutes will hold their positions only until the end of their predecessors' term of office. § 69 A member of the Board of Directors who, without duly proven justification and accepted by the other members of the Board, fails to attend 03 (three) consecutive regular meetings or 06 (six) alternate meetings during the fiscal year, will automatically lose their position. Art. 26. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, the Board of Directors is responsible for, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I — Establish guidelines, examine and approve the Cooperative's annual work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their development and execution on a monthly basis; ll ~ acquire, dispose of, donate or encumber real estate, and the alienation and/or donation must be approved by the General Assembly; Ill — decide on the form and deadlines for returning shares of share capital relating to dismissed members, excluded or eliminated under the terms of paragraphs 1 9 and 29 of article 13; IV — decide on the admission, elimination and exclusion of members, being able, at its sole discretion, to apply, in writing, prior warning; V - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute VI — verify, at least monthly, the economic and financial status of the cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general, through accounting balance sheets and specific statements VII — authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VIII - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the shares—capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; IX — examine and determine the reports of infractions committed within the Company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of applicable penalties; X » decide on the call for a general meeting; XI - previously authorize, participate in other companies or entities, with the social purpose of the cooperative and the current legislation and the deliberations and systemic guidelines in relation to; XII - authorize the changing the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as deciding on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of other information Classification: Internal use Page 23 of 31 dependencies or branches of the Cooperative, inside or outside of the host municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XIII - comply with and enforce this Statute, the legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XIV — express an opinion on the administration and provision of services report financial year accounts; XV — choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVI - establish standards for the admission and dismissal of employees, as well as approve the hiring of managers and/or executives relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Art. 27. A0 Chairman of the Board is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations; I — monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the actions of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership, development and management organization programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the formation of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating specifically to the development of the Cooperative; IV — submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, observing systemic guidelines; V — Ievar 2': assessment by the Board of Directors of the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budgetary proposals, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, the assembly general, annual report on the Cooperative's operations and activities, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII — select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special powers of the Board of Directors; VIII — institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic—corporate matters before the System, and also at general assemblies and meetings of companies in which the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever they indicate; X — pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the dependences of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and the quality of services provided to members; XII ~ apply the penalties stipulated by the general assembly or the Board of Directors; Classification of information Internal Use Page 24 of 31 XIII — appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Se;§o ll Executive Board Art. 28. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the company, composed of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. § 19 The members of the Executive Board will join the Board of Directors. § 29 In cases of impediment of less than 90 (ninety) days, the Executive Director will be replaced by the Operations Director, the latter by the Business Director and the latter by a Counselor chosen by the Board of Directors, among his peers. § 39 The mandate will be of 4 (four) years, with those appointed remaining in office until their successors take office. They may be dismissed by the Board of Directors at any time. § 49 The Cooperative will be represented, in or outside it, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 25, obligatorily: I ~ by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II — by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; § 59 Exceptionally, The Cooperative's representation will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I — before federal, state and municipal public authorities, local authorities and mixed-capital companies; II — granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III — in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that implies the absence of a plurality of Directors and vacancy n50 supplied. Art. 29. The Executive Board is responsible, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in Iegislagﬁoz I — to manage the Cooperative operationally, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II » contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, give in and compromise or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic state financial situation of the company, in compliance with the provisions of these Bylaws; III — appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of qualified authority, duties, responsibilities and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except those that contemplate the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for a period indefinite validity; IV ~ sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to 2‘! implementation and execution of the acquisition, alienation, donation or encumbrance, Classiﬁcation of information Internal Use Page 25 of 31 as applicable, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, in compliance with the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, and take any other measures to carry out such businesses; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII — implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial status of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII — examine the work plans and their respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and guide the audit techniques and internal controls, aiming to be safe and respect for Sicredi's legislage and internal normatives; XI — hire service providers whether on an occasional basis or not; XII - be responsible for all other activities related to the ordinary administration of the Cooperative; XIII — Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. § 19. In addition to the specific attributions of the previous article, the Executive Board is vested with powers to resolve, alienate or pledge assets and rights, including movable and immovable assets received in payment, those objects of property consolidation procedures, and/or those objects of agreements signed with debtors in extrajudicial procedures or judicial proceedings. Art. 30. A05 members of the Executive Board have the following duties: I - The Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperativism and sustainability development programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, according to market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) be responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, prioritizing for fully achieving the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; Classification of information Internal Use Page 26 of 31 g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the work plan, annual or multi-year, as well as budgetary proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II — The Director of Operations a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision and ensure compliance with internal standards and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. Ill — The Business Director: a) prepare and be responsible for the implementation of theoretical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) be responsible for managing performance and monitoring the results of service units, striving to fully achieve the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 19. It is prohibited to any of the members of the Executive Board to carry out acts of freedom at the expense of the Cooperative, allowing the granting of guarantees, sureties and other guarantees, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 29. The Executive Board n50 is a collegial body, and may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within their competence, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they consider it necessary to formalize FEUHIBO. § 39. Deliberations and other substantial occurrences at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 31. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective replacement, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, it may no longer be fulfilled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Art. 32. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. Classification of information Internal use Page 27 of 31 CHAPTER comes to the FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 33. The administration of Cooperativa Sicredi São Luis will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Supervisory Board, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 3 (three) substitute members, all individual members, elected by the general assembly. § 19 The term of office will be 03 (three years), with renewal of at least 2 (two) members at each election, 1 (one) being effective and 1 (one) substitute. § 2 ‘—’ The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 34. 0 Council The Supervisor meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1'—' At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening and directing the work of the meetings, and a secretary, to write the minutes and transcribe them in the proper book; § 29. The meetings They may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the General Assembly or the Board of Directors. § 39. In the absence of the coordinator, the work will be directed by a substitute chosen on the occasion. 5549. Fiscal Council meetings may be held in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. § 59. Deliberations will be taken by a simple majority vote and will be recorded in minutes, drawn up in the appropriate book, approved and signed at the end work, at each meeting, by the inspectors present. § 69. Alternate members may participate in meetings and discussions without the right to vote and, unless otherwise approved by the General Assembly, without the right to remuneration. Art. 35. When temporarily absent, or in In case of vacancy, the effective councilors will be replaced by alternates, following the order established in the election minutes. § 19. In the event of 4 (four) or more vacancies on the Fiscal Council, the President of the The Board of Directors will convene the general meeting for due completion, within 30 (thirty) days. § 29. In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political position—party party, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention at which it is confirmed. the appointment, under penalty of vacancy of the position. Art. 36. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and the Sicredi's internal regulations, the Supervisory Board is responsible for: l - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; ll - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents under custody; Ill - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; Classification of information Internal Use Page 28 of 31 IV — analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the financial year, preparing the respective opinion, which will be presented 2': general meeting; V — become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and demanding firmly, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly and the Board of Directors, formally established, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to the Cooperative set of individual cooperatives and respective central members of Sicredi; VII — report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, alerting it to any irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII — examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give your opinion on the proposals of the 6rg“a‘os of administration, to be submitted to the general meeting, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X — call a general meeting, by decision of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons arise. § 19. The effective members of the Fiscal Council 550 are jointly and severally liable, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the management of the Cooperative, whose practice results from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, opportune dismissal from the general meeting. § 29. The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the liability of counselors and directors for losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph . CHAPTER IX EXERCISE SETTING SHARE, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 37. The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 38. Two swings will be raised during the exercise, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 39. The surpluses determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I — 10% (ten percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and meet development from the Cooperative; ll — 5% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families and employees of the Cooperative; Classification of information: Internal Use Page 29 of 31 Ill — the remaining balance will be at the disposal of the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of 43' 19 of this article. § 1'-'. Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and by Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new quotas—shares of capital from members or additionally allocated to the resen/a fund itself. § two'-'. They may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining the allocations donations without specific destination are mandatory; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 40. In addition to the funds provided for in the previous article, the General Assembly may create other funds and provisions, with resources obligatorily destined for specific purposes, with a temporary nature, establishing the method of formation and liquidation. Art. 41. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Cynical paragraph. Allowed, by decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of losses verified in the year ended. Art. 42. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible between the members. chapter x DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION Art. 43. In addition to other circumstances provided for by law, the Cooperative dissolves itself as of right: I - when the general assembly so decides, as long as 20 (twenty) members, at least, do not willing to ensure its continuity; ll — by changing its legal form; Ill ~ by reducing the number of members to less than 20 (twenty), or its minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V — due to the suspension of normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 44. The Company's liquidation will comply with legal and regulatory standards. Art. 45. When the dissolution is decided by the General Assembly, it will appoint one or more liquidators and a Fiscal Council, composed of 03 (Three) members to carry out its liquidation. § 19. The General Assembly, within the limits of its duties, it may, at any time, remove the liquidators and members of the Fiscal Council, designating their replacements. § 29. In all acts and operations, liquidators must use the name Sicredi S50 Luis followed by the expression “in liquidation”. § 39. The liquidation process can only be initiated after a hearing at the Central Bank of Brazil. Classiﬁcation of information Internal Use Page 30 of 31 CHAPTER maintain an agreement to carry out ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with the current legislation. CHAPTER xu OF TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 47. 05 deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 48. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data are presumed to be 50 received within 5 (five) days, counted from its sending. Art. 49. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the market operations of the cooperative. cooperative, through authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. (Article 52 is optional for inclusion by the Cooperative, with authorization from its respective Central) Art. 50. O5 omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with the legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when necessary, the social ergeos. Séo Luis, April 20, 2022 Cicero Evandro Soares Silva Executive Director / Chairman of the Board Jandrey Paulo Juliéo de Souza Operations Director Aloisio Rosado Filho Business Director information: Internal Use MINISTRY OF ECONOMY Special Secretariat for Debureaucratization, Management and Digital Government Secretariat for Digital Government National Department of Business Registration and Integration Page 31 of 31 ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE We certify that the act of the company COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT DOS MEDICOS E HEALTH PROFESSIONALS /10 LUlS - SICREDI SAO LUlS is digitally signed by: IDENTIFICATION OF SUBSCRIBER(S) CPF/CNPJ Name 01010014447 ALOISIO ROSADO FILHO 23722851220 CICERO EVANDRO SOARES SILVA 75060671372 JANDREY PAULO JULIAO DE SOUZA czxnnco o nacxs-mo an 29/09/2022 15:15 son w 20221125493. PROTOCOL-0: 221125493 OF 28/09/202 2. VERIFICACKD CODE: 12212363394. HEADQUARTERS CNPJ: 03143326000180. Mme: 21400009321. with breasts on REGISTRATION ON: 09/29/2022. JUCEMA COOPBRATIVA ma cnﬁnrro nos minxcos And pxonssxomus ma sAﬁm9 me 5130 Luis - SICREDI sic Luis CARLOS ANDRE DE MDRAES PEREIRA sscnsrﬁno-camp wwwiempreaa£a<:i1,ma,gov.br The validity decreases The document, if printed, is subject to verification (its authenticity in the respective documents, including its respective verification codes.