1 Classification of information: Internal Use BYLAWS OF INCORPORATION BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SICREDI ARACAJU – Sicredi Aracaju SE CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters , Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1 The Sicredi Aracaju Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative – Sicredi Aracaju, established at the general meeting of September 15, 1998 is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, having: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in the city of Aracaju in the state of Sergip and located at Rua José Carvalho Pinto number 280, Galeria Boulevard, Bairro Jardins. ZIP CODE. 49026 -150 II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by the Central Cooperative of Credit, Savings and Investment of the Northeast - Central Sicredi Nordeste, limited to the municipalities of Aracaju, Nossa Senhora do Socorro, Lagarto, Itabaiana, São Cristóvão, Estância, Tobias Barreto, Itabaianinha, Simão Dias, Nossa Senhora da Glória, Poço Redondo, Itaporanga d'Ajuda, Capela, Propriá, Barra dos Coqueiros , Laranjeiras, Canindé de São Francisco, Porto da Folha, Boquim, Nossa Senhora das Dores, Umbaúba, Poço Verde, Carira, Aquidabã, Salgado, Riachão do Dantas, Neópolis, Japaratuba, Ribeirópolis, Areia Branca, Cristinápolis, Campo do Brito, Indiaroba, Maruim, Carmópolis, Frei Paulo, Monte Alegre de Sergipe, Pacatuba, Santa Luzia do Itanhy, Japoatã, Tomar do Geru, Malhador, Santo Amaro das Brotas, Gararu, Moita Bonita, São Domingos, Rosário do Catete, Arauá, Riachuelo, Pedrinhas, Pirambu, Nossa Senhora Aparecida, Siriri, Il ha das Flores, Brejo Grande, Santana do São Francisco, Muribeca, Macambira, Pinhão, Nossa Senhora de Lourdes, Cedro de São João, Graccho Cardoso, Feira Nova, Divina Pastora, Itabi, Canhoba, Cumbe, São Francisco, São Miguel do Aleixo, Santa Rosa de Lima, Malhada dos Bois, General Maynard, Pedra Mole, Telha, Amparo de São Francisco. III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration with Sicredi 2 Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 2º The Company, upon joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, are also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all persons legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Educational Development Foundation and Cultural of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi N ordeste, on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3 Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I- the majority of its members, to become independent; II - of the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. § 4 In the cases provided for in §§ 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is ensured in all stages of the procedure. § 5 The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I – with the systemic rules on the use of the brand, the participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II – the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III – Sicredi’s official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the health of the society itself or the solidity and /or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8º Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: 3 Classification of information: Internal Use I – the obligations for participation in the Check Clearing Service and Others Papers; II – obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III – to loans taken out by Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 8 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 10º The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph It can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 11. The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions allocated to the funds of Sicr edi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. To Central Sicredi Nordeste as coordinator of the System’s actions in its area of performance, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II SOCIAL PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - Practicing the operations of credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or 4 Classification of information: Internal use passed on by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and of other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relationship to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, in compliance with internal regulations and legislation. current. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMI MESION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Admission Conditions Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I – natural persons who reside or carry out activity in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; II – legal entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III – entities depersonalized employees established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV – individuals who have a link with the cooperative or any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V – other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; 5 Information classification: Internal use VI – parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; VII – individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities that reside or are established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Nordeste, excluding, for this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to the other Central. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to service, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2º of the art. 11 of these Bylaws: I – anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II – anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III – anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV – anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V – that one that causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI – anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; VII – anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII – anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or others that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of sections IV and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship. 6 Classification of information: Internal Use Section II Rights Art. 6 The rights of members are: I – to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II – vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in the internal regulations; III – use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV – propose to the Board of Directors changes to the statutes and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity verified in the management of the Company or a normative-statutory infraction committed by an associate; V – propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general assembly; VI – have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved in General meeting; VII – have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I – comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II – operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative cooperative or through it; III – pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV – preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; 7 Classification of information: Internal Use VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that the cooperation is of common interest, overriding individual interests; VIII - keep registration information updated. Sole paragraph: The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The associates, subject to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, respond subsidiarily for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal , elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. § 1º A The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required to do so, except in the cases set out in §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be appear in its records, due to: I – violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; 8 Classification of information: Internal Use II – if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative within 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III – violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV – practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member administration, inspector or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days he or she can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in his/her opinion, disqualify the infraction or the act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may file an appeal with the period of 15 (fifteen) days, counted from the notification of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. Article the case, preventively of its functions, while the investigation continues, informing you of the verifications carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days you can present your reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a Board meeting Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I – dissolution of the legal entity; 9 Classification of information: Internal Use II – death of an individual; III – loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV – fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. §1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Bylaws will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Board of Directors Executive. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 1,5,000.00 ( fifteen thousand reais) and must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay at least 5 (five) shares. § 3 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from the membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to subscriptions and voluntary payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new quotas - shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5º In capital payments, except as described in § 2º of this article, subscription and monthly payment will be admitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member can hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The quotas -parts of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as a guarantee to other members or third parties. 10 Classification of information: Internal Use § 8 The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund of referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general meeting, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, allowing payment to be split in installments by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within 5 ( five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its framework in all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, respecting systemic indications. § 12. The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the meeting takes place general referred to in § 10 of this article, provided that: I – the partial result of the year in which the dismissal occurs presents surpluses; II – there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III – the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The individual member who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years, or If you retire due to disability, you may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw funds that exceed the minimum capital of R$ 15,000.00 (fifteen thousand reais). § 14. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw what exceeds the minimum Capital of R$ 15,000.00 (fifteen thousand reais). § 15. The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by associates more flexible, including for the purpose of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situations, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum shareholdings established in the caput of this article. § 16. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of their share of capital, and the total amount of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he/she left the membership. In the hypothesis If there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may collect it through the means permitted by the national legal system. § 18. The return, referred to in §§ 13 and 14, if approved by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, will be made at the discretion of this body, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting the parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its framework in all asset limits required by current legislation, and payment in installments by the Cooperative is also permitted. § 19. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 20. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be compensated, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital shares, maintaining their status as a member with the minimum shares established in the caput of this article. § 21. Balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions on interest of the Society, and the deliberations bind everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. § 1 The matters, object of the agenda of the ordinary general meeting, must be previously assessed in core assemblies, and will be coordinated by the President of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, or by the Vice-President, or, if they are unable to do so, by whoever he indicates. 12 Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 At the discretion of the Board of Directors, and if the relevance of the items recommends it, the matters, object of the agenda of the extraordinary general meeting, may be resolved by the Assembly of Delegates, with subsequent science to members at the next core assembly. § 3 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice that must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in a publicly accessible repository unrestricted on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights , in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I – the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of Assembly General" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); II – the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III – the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the mode access to the means of communication made available for member participation, in the event of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving the votes, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, provided that expressly included in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, on first call; 13 Classification of information: Internal Use II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates , in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4º Whenever the matters are assessed by the members in their respective nuclei, the delegate's vote at general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the nucleus he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of delegate vacancies among the nuclei will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 23 (twenty-three) nuclei, observing its own regulations; II - the grouping of associates in cores can be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. 14 Classification of information: Internal Use § 4 In case of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. General meetings will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2º When the general assembly has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be chaired and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main stakeholders in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his alternate or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations at assemblies general elections, held in open voting unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except for matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which the votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates are required gifts. Single paragraph. The deliberations and other substantial events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the meeting and the secretary of work, as well as by a commission of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many more as wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new and convening notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum , both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. 15 Classification of information: Internal Use Section II Ordinary General Meeting Art. 24. The ordinary general meeting must be held once a year, within the legal deadline, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixing, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses of the members of the Councils and Executive Directors. V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluded those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I – reform of the Bylaws; II – merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III – change in the Company’s purpose; IV – voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V – liquidator’s accounts; 16 Classification of information: Internal Use VI – maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI OF ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission constituted specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, ensuring its autonomy and its independence, reporting operationally to the same board. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 10 (ten) advisors, including a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the established requirements below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – not maintain, since the application, an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even, with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II – when taking office in the position for which he/she was elected, not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council and the Executive Board; III – not be, simultaneously, an employee or administrator or hold shares in a company that, due to its activities, is considered as a competitor of any of the entities that are part of Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; IV – not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V – meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI – not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII – have an unblemished reputation; 17 Classification of information: Internal Use VIII – be a resident of the country; IX – not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime of bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property or the National Financial System , or sentenced to a sentence that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; X - not declared disqualified or suspended for the exercise of positions in statutory or contractual organs in institutions authorized by Banco Centra L of Brazil or in supplementary pension entities, insurance companies, capitalization companies, open companies or entities subject to supervision the Securities and Exchange Commission; XI – not be declared bankrupt or insolvent. XII – not have, through intent or fault, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi’s image in any of Sicredi’s member entities; XIII- have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (being an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) nucleus assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; XIV – have participated, in the immediately previous exercise, or participate of courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of their mandate, up to a period of 1 (one) year after inauguration; XV - have availability of time for full compliance with statutory and legal incumbency, and accumulation is prohibited with another position or function (elective or not), which requires incompatible dedication with responsibility in the Cooperative; XVI - be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XVII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVIII - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or using any brands owned by the entities forming part of Sicredi; XIX - not having suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. § 1 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. 18 Classification of information: Internal Use § 2º They may not former employees dismissed for just cause can apply for social positions, nor directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during their term of office or who, for the same reasons, have been dismissed or resigned to the position for which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher integer must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position(s), whether or not the designated person(s) is confirmed, and the person(s) elected will serve the remaining time of the President's term(s) and /or Succeeded Vice-President(s). Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following constitute, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in the elected position: I – a loss of membership status; II – failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 4 (four) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III – death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV – licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V – sponsorship, as part or attorney, taking legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI – the holder becomes ineligible under the regulations in force, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. 19 Classification of information: Internal Use § 8 In the event that the advisor is nominated as a candidate for political position - partisan, must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of the position becoming vacant. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood as: I – Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II – Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the Party's own regulations; III – Appointed, designated or associated post – those agents politicians invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I – meets, monthly in an ordinary manner, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President, the majority of the Board itself, or, even, upon request action of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority present of its components, with the President exercising the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1 The convening of meetings of the Administration Council will preferably be in writing, with the use of means being permitted communication electronics. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner( a) or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including through electronic. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: 20 Classification of information: Internal Use I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by him; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the defined objectives and goals for the society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V – register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI – authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII – decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII – forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative’s real estate, classified as non-current; IX – decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of real estate of the Cooperative, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate the complaints of infractions committed within the company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of the appropriate penalties; XI – decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII – decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital holdings in other companies or entities, including of a non-cooperative nature, meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV – authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of the Cooperative's other facilities or branches, within or outside the municipality headquarters, in accordance with current legislation; XIV – comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and Sicredi’s internal regulations; XV – express opinions on the management report and financial statements for the year; 21 Classification of information: Internal Use XVII – choose and remove external auditors, observing systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing social capital by the membership associates; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing the share capital of the membership; XX – deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Paragraph single. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the activities of the Cooperative, including compliance with applicable regulations , coordinating the action of Executive Board; II – lead the implementation of Sicredi’s membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III – monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV – submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, observing systemic guidelines; V – lead to the assessment of the Board of Directors the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, monitoring their implementation; VI – present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII – select the Directors, inside or outside the corporate structure, subject to the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII – institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic and corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX – participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; 22 Classification of information: Internal Use X – pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, convening and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the facilities of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to members; XII – apply the penalties stipulated by the general assembly or the Board of Directors; XIII – appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out related acts and operations for the purposes of the company's interest, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, including an Executive Director and an Operations Director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 Once the appointment of the 2 (two) Directors occurs, the functions will be exercised, in accordance with the deliberation of the Board of Directors, observing the restrictions legal and normative. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be re-conducted in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. § 4 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or out of it, actively and passively, except for the provided for in section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: 23 Classification of information: Internal Use I – before federal, state and municipal public bodies , local authorities and mixed economy companies; II – granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III – in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to XII and XVII to XIX, as well as that of § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III – have a degree in higher education; IV – proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V – meet the complementary systemic requirements when provided for in the regulations. Art. 34. It is up to the Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and in internal regulations: I - manage the Cooperative operationally, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of this Statute; III - name attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, in compliance with the provisions of these Statutes; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; 24 Classification of information: Internal Use VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their monthly execution, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and resilient to Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities typical of the Cooperative’s ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for following duties, among others, observing § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi’s cooperative development and sustainability programs in the area of ​​operation of the Cooperative; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the planning 25 Classification of the Cooperative information: Annual Internal Use of the Cooperative, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, according to the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; H) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) respond formally, for the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. d) prepare and respond to the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; e) be responsible for managing performance and monitoring the results of service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the planning annual of the Cooperative; f) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; g) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; h) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any member of the Executive Board is prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of of the Cooperative, the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of this Statute Social, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. 26 Classification of information: Internal Use § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will appear in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art.36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In case of vacancy in all positions of the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, through reckless management or serious omission of duties, determine loss to the Company, will respond directly with their own equity for compensation for damages; § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the as set out in the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER V III THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art.38. The administration of The cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Supervisory Board, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XIX, of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires complete, independent and independent slate(s) unrelated to the election of the Fiscal Council. Administration, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2 The term of office will be 02 (two) years, with renewal, in accordance with relevant legislation. § 3 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 4 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. 27 Classification of information: Internal Use Art.39. The Supervisory Board meets monthly in an ordinary way and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of their members and at the request of the assembly or of the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art.40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the current advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to complete it within a period of 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 2 7, § 7, of this Statute, it is up to the Board itself to assess the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political position - partisan, he must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention at which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art.41. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and systemic regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and the actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their execution, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, the dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the norms on social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of its functions; 28 Classification of information: Internal Use V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections that are necessary is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic - corporate matters of interest to all individual cooperatives and their respective centers that are members of Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of their work, alerting them to the irregularities found and, in the absence of action on their part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of administrative bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the management of the Cooperative, the practice of which derives from its proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the liability of counselors and directors for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph . CHAPTER IX OF SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art.42. The fiscal year lasts 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art.43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: 29 Classification of information: Internal Use I - 45% (forty-five percent) at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; II - 5% (five percent) at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families and employees of the Cooperative and the community located in its area of action ; III - 1% (one percent) for the Social Fund, intended to meet social actions of collective interest, contributing to development social status of communities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1 Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the pre-apportionment system established in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares - shares of capital of the members or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of regulation applicable. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among associates. CHAPTER to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, achievable within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, are not reestablished; 30 Classification of information: Internal Use IV - by canceling authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER ombudsman with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with current legislation. CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from its shipment. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, through authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after consultation with the social bodies, when appropriate. Art. 54. The current members of the Fiscal Council will have their mandates preserved until the Ordinary General Assembly of 2024, applying the provisions changed in this body from the Ordinary General Assembly to be held in 2024. Aracaju – SE, March 28, 2023 José Hermano Marinho Junior Jorge Henrique Felipe de Almeida President Vice -President