Classification of information: Internal Use BELONGING REGULATION CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This Regulation governs the procedures that govern the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management and development process of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - Credit System Cooperative, hereinafter simply referred to as “cooperatives” or “cooperative”. Single paragraph. In addition to the provisions in the caput, the Program also aims to equip cooperatives in order to increase the participation of members in matters related to their management and development, through centers. Art. 2 The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 3 The provisions contained in this Regulation regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after the adequacy of the cooperative's bylaws, covering this form of participation, in accordance with current regulations, and apply to cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 1 It is optional for co-operatives that serve specific segments and/or categories to adopt this form of member participation as long as they have the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 2 For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will receive the name of nucleus coordinator in this Regulation. CHAPTER II CORE MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES Art. 4 A meeting is considered to be a meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members or coordinators to discuss matters of specific interest to the membership, the nucleus or those defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Single paragraph. The meetings will be organized and held with the prior knowledge of the Administrative Council. Art. 5 A core assembly is considered an event held with members with the aim of deliberating on: Classification of information: Internal Use I - the election and dismissal of the core coordinator, effective and substitutes; II - the matters of the cooperative's general assembly, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 1 The call for core assemblies, containing the date, time, place and/or form of the its implementation and matters to be resolved, will be done through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably at least 10 (ten) days in advance. § 2 The call will, as a rule, be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors. § 3 In the event that the call for the general meeting is carried out by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, core assemblies must automatically be called. § 4 If the provisions of the previous paragraph occur, at least 3 (three) counselors or associates must sign the notice. § 5 The nucleus may call a nucleus assembly to remove or elect its nucleus coordinator. § 6 The core assembly, regardless of the form of implementation, will be considered valid when, at the end, it has been attended by, at least 10 (ten) members per group. § 7 If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per nucleus, there must be a new call in accordance with § 1 of this article. If there is not enough time to call it, the core vote will not be considered at the general meeting. § 8 The participation of members in the core assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors, who may choose between face-to-face, blended or digital forms, without prejudice to the registration of their manifestations when voting. §9 The matters of the core assemblies will be considered approved by a majority of those present. Classification of information: Internal Use §10. In the event of a tie in the nucleus vote, the tiebreaker will be exercised by the nucleus coordinator. If absent, he will break the tie by expressing his vote at the general meeting. §11. When holding core assemblies in a blended or digital format, a channel for interaction with the cooperative. Art. 6 In addition to the specificities described in articles 4 and 5, core meetings and core assemblies are recognized spaces for qualified participation of members with questions, demonstrations and strategic contributions, as well as learning, formation of cooperative identity and of belonging. Single paragraph. Actions structured throughout the year will be considered an integral part of the annual meeting movement when duly Attendance is recorded in the P ertencer Program tool, and its activities and results are included in the minutes for the respective treatment. CHAPTER III MEMBERS Art. 7 The rights of members, in addition to those revised in the cooperative's Bylaws, are: I - to vote and be voted for nucleus coordinator; II - propose to the nucleus coordinator any matters of interest to the cooperative to be explained at meetings; III - Discuss and vote on the matters covered by the core assembly. Art. 8 The attitudes expected from members are: I - knowing and practicing cooperativism; II - nominate new members; III - submit suggestions to the nucleus for consideration to improve operations, services, customer service, facilities, among others; IV - make yourself available as a candidate for nucleus coordinator. CHAPTER IV NUCLEIUMS Art. 9 The group of members of the cooperative is considered a nucleus, taking into account the following premises: Information classification: Internal Use I - the cooperative will define the number of members per nucleus, observing the nucleus limit established in the Bylaws, through registration in the minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. The number of members per nucleus cannot be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II - after this definition, the number of members grouped in groups cannot exceed a variation of 50% (fifty percent) more or less; III - the cooperative must have at least 11 (eleven) member groups, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - to guarantee the right to vote for members of newly opened branches or those that have not reached the number defined in section I of this article by the Board of Directors, it will be up to the Board of Directors to define the form of participation of these members in the centers; V - each core will have a core coordinator effective and at least 1 (one) alternate at the time of the election, and the number of alternates may be established by the Board of Directors; VI - the grouping into nuclei must observe the best service for the member, respecting the nucleation criteria defined by the Board of Directors; VII - the cooperative will define the number of nuclei that can be grouped into the same nucleus assembly, as long as it guarantees adequate accommodation for members. § 1 When the amount of core members exceed the variation of 50% (fifty percent) of members, more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in section I of this article. § 2 When the number of centers in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote its amendment. § 3 When the Board of Directors decides to reduce the number of cooperative centers, there will be an automatic loss of mandate of the coordinators of the extinct nucleus. CHAPTER V THE CORE COORDINATOR Art. 10. The nucleus coordinator is the individual member elected at a nucleus assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the Cooperative Information Classification: Internal Use and representing members at general assemblies , when the cooperative adopts this modality. Art. 1 1. To apply and carry out the activities of nucleus coordinator, the applicant must: I - be certified in the Crescer Program; II - make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a party political position or function upon election, or during the term of office, in compliance with the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws; IV - not respond, due to pending issues related to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other occurrences or circumstances similar, in addition to not having a negative record in any databases, external or from the cooperative itself, as well as having promoted or being promoting, as a party or attorney, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi; V - not be an employee of the cooperative or have been dismissed from the cooperative for just cause; and VI - not be a former advisor or former director who is subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic standards during the course of his term of office or who, for the same reasons, has been removed from office or resigned from the position to which he was elected. Art. 1 2. The core coordinator's duties will be considered: I – when invited by the Board of Directors, participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the cooperative's social projects; II - participate in meetings of nucleus coordinators, nucleus meetings and nucleus assembly; III - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - participate, when invited by the President or Board Member, in events of interest to the cooperative.; and V - participate in the training of coordinators in the cooperative, disseminating cooperativism. Classification of information: Internal Use Sole paragraph. Member data cannot be provided by the cooperative to the nucleus coordinator, due to the confidentiality of information. Art. 1 3. In addition to the matters provided for in the sections of art. 4th of these Regulations, the following will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of core coordinators: I - preparation of core assemblies that precede the general assemblies; II - issues related to the development of the cooperative; III - analysis of the cooperative's economic and financial situation; IV - others of interest to the cooperative administration. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTION PROCESS OF COORDINATORS CORE Art. 1 4. The election of nucleus coordinators will take place at a nucleus assembly in good time before the general assembly of the cooperative, and the candidate must register, using the specific form provided by the cooperative, within the deadline established in the call notice of the core assembly. Single paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with the requirements for the role and notify the candidate. Art. 1 5. The mandate of the nucleus coordinators will comply with the deadline set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 1 6. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 1 7. The following will be considered as elected nucleus coordinators: I - the member with the most votes and the second most voted by the nucleus will respectively be considered effective coordinator and substitute coordinator, and so on according to the greater number of substitutes; II - the members with the greatest number of votes, when presented as candidates together (effective and substitute(s)), indicating the order of substitutes; III - the members presented as the only candidates (effective and substitute(s)), acclaimed by the Core Assembly. § 1 In any of the hypotheses in items I and II of this article, the replacement order must be recorded in the election minutes. Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 In the event of a tie in voting, the member who will perform the functions of The effective core coordinator will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, with the same rule applying to substitutes. Art. 1 8. The investiture of nucleus coordinators will occur automatically after the announcement of the election results. Art. 1 9. In the event of a vacancy in the effective core coordinator, the first substitute will assume the role. If there are no substitutes to take over, the core members will elect new core coordinators in accordance with this Regulation, effective and alternate(s), to serve the remainder of the term. § 1 The following are the hypotheses of vacancy for nucleus coordinators: I - loss of membership status; II - failure to attend, without justification, the general meeting of the cooperative, at the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, resignation and dismissal; IV - health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in his duties; V - as party or attorney, promote measure legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; VI - no longer meets the conditions for the role of nucleus coordinator, in accordance with these Regulations; VII - be elected a member of the Board of Directors or Supervisory Board of the cooperative, or even a director; VIII - exercise a vote at the general assembly that differs from that defined by the nucleus; IX - hold a position in corporate bodies in a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; X - transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; and XI - become an employee of another financial institution. § 2 In the event that the nucleus coordinator is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request for resignation within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed or Classification of information: Internal Use 48h (forty-eight) eight hours) after having assumed one of the positions mentioned above, under penalty of vacancy in the position. For the purposes of this Regulation, party political position is understood to be the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws. § 3 The dismissal of the nucleus coordinator will occur by deliberation of the members at a nucleus assembly. Other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. CHAPTER VII REPRESENTATIVENESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 20. The effective core coordinators will be called upon to represent the members at the general assemblies of the cooperative and, if they are unable to attend, their substitutes. § 1 Whenever the effective nucleus coordinator is present at the general meeting, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. § 2 As soon as he becomes aware of the impossibility of attending the general meeting or needs to be absent when it has already started, the coordinator member of the effective core must communicate the fact to his deputy and also to the cooperative, for his replacement. § 3º If it is impossible for the core coordinator, effective and alternate(s), to participate in the general assembly, the President of the assembly will ask the secretary or another member, who will act as representative and for the act, to present the vote , reading the result of the vote of the respective nucleus, in order to be computed at the general assembly, restrictively to those matters that were previously considered at the Core Assembly. § 4 According to the system provided for in § 4 of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the nucleus coordinator's vote will be linked to the decisions of the nucleus he represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the nucleus assembly. § 5 The absence of the coordinator at the general assembly will be informed by the cooperative to the respective nucleus at the first nucleus assembly that takes place. CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 2 1. The nucleus coordinator will not receive any type of financial compensation, except for the reimbursement of his expenses for carrying out the function, which must be decided by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 2 2. Meetings and core assemblies held by the cooperative must be registered in advance in the Belonging Program management tool. Art. 2 3. A cooperative beginning its activity or recently integrated into the System will join this Program after evaluation and recommendation from the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. This Belonging Regulation was approved at the General Assembly held on 04/01/2022.