SICREDI NORTE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT Tv. Humaitá, 1001 (between Marquês and Pedro Miranda) - Pedreira 66083 -340 - Belém/PA sicredi.com.br Information classification: Internal Use ELECTORAL CODE SIREDI NORTE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT CHAPTER I Initial provisions Art. 1st This Electoral Code establishes the systemic rules of the election process for the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council of Sicredi's individual cooperatives. Art. 2 The electoral process will observe the provisions of the legislation, the bylaws and the rules of this Code. CHAPTER II Electoral Procedure with Delegated Vote Section I Electoral Commission Art. 3 The electoral process will be conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, ensuring its autonomy and independence. § 1 The Commission will be appointed by the Board of Directors with the minimum advance notice necessary to meet all deadlines essential to the organization of the electoral process. § 2 The Commission will be made up of at least 03 (three) individual members, with the option of appointing substitutes, subject to the following requirements: a) not being part of the list of candidates; b) not be holding a position on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; c) not be spouse(s), partner(s), relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, of the candidates or of current mandates on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; d) preferably, not be employees of the Cooperative. Art. 4 The Electoral Commission is responsible for: I - receiving the registration protocols of individual candidates and slates; II - analyze whether registered candidates meet the legal, statutory requirements and this Code, necessary to apply for elected positions and other aspects related to the process electoral; III - approve or not the individual candidacy(s) and the registered plate(s); IV - define the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period before or during the core assemblies and general assembly; V - define whether voting will be by acclamation or secret, including the operational aspects related to the election, especially when there is more than one ticket registered, such as: a) the model of voting ballots or the electronic voting, the location of ballot boxes and voting booths, as applicable; b) the procedures for determining the results of the election, including requesting, if necessary, the support of members present to monitor the process and assist in counting the votes; SICREDI NORTE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT Tv. Humaitá, 1001 (between Marquês and Pedro Miranda) - Pedreira 66083 -340 - Belém/PA sicredi.com.br Classification of information: Internal use c) treatment and forwarding of candidature requests received individually or through slate(s); d) the beginning and end of the voting process; e) general instructions relating to the process and the result of the vote. VI - inform individual candidates and registered candidates of their decisions; VII - resolve omitted cases; VIII - apply the penalties provided for in this Code or in the Minutes of the Electoral Commission. § 1 The meetings will be recorded in minutes and the deliberations will be validated by the decision of a simple majority, with the majority of committee members present. § 2 At the first meeting held, the Commission will choose a coordinator and a secretary from among its members. § 3 In the absence of members of the Electoral Commission at the core assembly, the Commission will appoint a representative. § 4 The Electoral Commission may request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative for the Commission's work. § 5º In the case of a tie in the vote for the Council of Administration or for the Supervisory Board, at the general meeting, the winner will be the one whose candidate or group of candidates has the longest average time of association with the Cooperative. § 6 Unless expressly and individually consented, in accordance with the General Personal Data Protection Law, no personal data of members will be provided for the purposes set out in this Code. Art. 5 Any registered candidate, by themselves or by persons interposed, the practice of the following acts: I - using information protected by bank secrecy or by the General Data Protection Law; II - adopt practices that may cause damage or damage to the image of Sicredi or any of the entities that make up Sicredi; III - threaten or coerce members or collaborators of the Cooperative; IV - propagate untruths or information without due proof; V - offer advantages or privileges in exchange for votes; VI - use the Sicredi brand; VII - violate current legislation, the Cooperative's Bylaws or this Code. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may provide, in minutes, other practices that it considers prohibited. Art. 6 The practice of any of the infractions provided for in this Code will subject the individual candidate and the offending party to the following sanctions, applied alternately or cumulatively at the discretion of the Electoral Commission, without prejudice to civil and criminal liability: I - warning, in writing; II - temporary suspension of any manifestation of propaganda by an individual candidate or the ticket, in any medium and location; SICREDI NORTE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT Tv. Humaitá, 1001 (between Marquês and Pedro Miranda) - Pedreira 66083 -340 - Belém/PA sicredi.com.br Information classification: Internal Use III - revocation of the candidacy of the individual candidate or the plate. § 1 The application of the penalty(s) will be preceded by notification to the individual candidate or candidate so that, within the deadline set by the Electoral Commission, they can present a response. § 2 Whether or not the response mentioned in § 1 of this article is received, within the fixed period, the Electoral Commission will decide on the application of the penalty, with due communication to the individual candidate or the ticket. § 3 All penalties applied will be communicated by the Electoral Commission at the Assemblies. Section II Registration to the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council Art. 7 The President of the Board of Directors will announce to the membership, at least 45 (forty-five) days before the first Core Assembly, the opening of the deadline for registration of the slate(s) for the election of the Board of Directors and individual candidacies from the Supervisory Board. § 1 The disclosure will be posted in a visible location, preferably in agencies, other forms of disclosure being provided, at the discretion of the Cooperative. This is publicity it must contain, at a minimum: a) the registration period for the individual candidacy(s) and the ticket(s), with an indication of the times; b) the place of registration; c) indication of the documents required for registration. § 2 The registration period will begin with the disclosure mentioned in this article and will end 30 (thirty) days before the first Nucleus Assembly is held, and the registration request must be filed at the Cooperative's headquarters at the time between 9 (nineteen) and 17 (seventeen) hours. § 3 The registration protocol must be accompanied by the documents required by this Code, an electronic address or contact telephone number and be signed by the individual candidate or by a member of the list, who will be the representative for all purposes. § 4 Once the registration period has closed, the Cooperative will publish the list of candidates and/or the registered slate(s) the following day. § 5 The plate(s) for the Board of Directors and candidature(s) for the Supervisory Board must be independent and complete. § 6 Individual registrations will not be accepted for candidacy for elective positions on the Board of Directors, and simultaneous participation in more than one list is prohibited. Art. 8 Once the registrations have been published, any person, whether associated or not, will have a period of 2 (two) days to present an objection, duly accompanied by the documents evidence. Single paragraph. If there is an objection, a period of 2 (two) days will be opened for the individual candidate and/or the contested ticket(s) to respond and, as soon as the deadline has expired, the documentation will be forwarded to the Electoral Commission . Art. 9 Up to 10 (ten) days before the First Core Assembly, the Electoral Commission will meet to: I - decide on any objections; SICREDI NORTE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT Tv. Humaitá, 1001 (between Marquês and Pedro Miranda) - Pedreira 66083 -340 - Belém/PA sicredi.com.br Classification of information: Internal Use II - analyze compliance with legal, statutory requirements and this Code; III - approve or not the individual candidacy(ies) and/or the ticket(s). § 1 Before deciding whether or not to approve the registrations, the Commission may: I - request additional information, or determine measures, for assistance within 2 (two) days, and, after analyzing this, decide, as appropriate; II - for a single time, in the case of candidacy by slate, determine the replacement of candidate(s) who do not meet the corresponding requirements, to be served within 2 (two) days, and must comply with the provisions of art. 8th of this Code; III - accept the replacement of the candidate on the ticket in the event of death; IV - receive, up to 5 (five) days before the deadline set out in § 4 of this article, a single request to replace candidate(s), per ticket, indicating the respective substitute. § 2 Non-approval will cover the entire plate, even when the granted objection concerns only one or some of its components. § 3º There will be no appeal against the decision on the approval or not of the individual candidacy or the ticket(s). § 4 Up to 3 (three) days before the first Core Assembly, the Commission will publish the final nomination, in a visible place and easily accessible to interested parties, on the Cooperative's premises. § 5 Once the final nominata, the approved plate(s) cannot be changed, except in the case of death. § 6 In the case of a single ticket, after approval, candidate replacement is permitted in the case of withdrawal, death or when it is found that the corresponding requirements are not met. § 7 In the event that replacement is permitted after approval of the ticket (§ 5 and § 6), the Electoral Commission will grant a period of 2 (two) days for the ticket to replace the candidate, observing the requirements for candidacy and the provisions of art. 8th of this Code. Art. 10. Once the registrations have been approved, the Electoral Commission must hold a meeting in order to define: I - the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period preceding or during the meetings, with the use of the Sicredi brand by any candidate; II - operational aspects related to election and voting, especially in cases where there are more than a regularly registered slate. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may invite individual candidates or representatives of the slates to participate in the meeting referred to in this article. Art. 11. Regardless of the way in which the members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils are chosen, the registration of individual candidates or slates will not be permitted in the Core Assembly(s) or in the general assembly. Section III Documents Art. 12. Along with the request for protocol of each individual registration and ticket, applicants are responsible for delivering the documents of the candidate(s), listed below, the veracity of which will be verified by the Electoral Commission, through the means available to them: SICREDI NORTE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT Tv. Humaitá, 1001 (between Marquês and Pedro Miranda) - Pedreira 66083 -340 - Belém/PA sicredi.com.br Information classification: Internal use a) copy of identification document and CPF; b) declaration of freedom to exercise the position, if elected to the administrative or supervisory body; c) negative or positive certificates with the effect of negative debts of federal, state and municipal taxes and contributions, including from any company of which he is the controller or administrator; d) civil, state and federal certificate, from the respective domiciles and where the activity is carried out, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery, including any company of which he is a controller or administrator; e) criminal, state and federal certificate of the respective domiciles, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; f) electoral criminal certificate, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; g) negative or positive certificate with negative effects on labor debts; h) negative certificate of security protest; i) declaration issued by the candidate that he or she is not on the register of issuers of bad checks (CCF); j) copy of the last income tax declaration, or the exemption declaration, in both cases with the updated asset stratification; k) negative certificate issued by the Court of Auditors of the State of the respective domicile, and of the Union; l) form provided by the Cooperative duly completed and signed by the individual candidate and all members of the plate(s). Single paragraph. The electoral commission will be responsible for analyzing cases and occurrences that are related to items "c", "d" and "h", in accordance with the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER III Final Provisions Art. 13. The deadlines provided for in this Code will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Single paragraph. If the due date falls on a holiday or weekend, the deadline will be considered extended. until the next business day. Art. 14. The provisions set out in this Electoral Code do not apply to the election to fill a vacant position on the Administrative or Fiscal Council already elected, in which case the replacement must be previously appointed by the respective council, observing the legal and statutory requirements . This Electoral Code was approved at the General Assembly held on ...../....../....... . Subscriptions.