Classification of information: Unrestricted Use SICREDI NORTE - COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT CNPJ/MF 83.315.408/0001 -80 NIRE – 15400001783 CALL NOTICE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF DIGITAL CORE (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43 -A ) The President of the Board of Directors of SICREDI NORTE - COOPERATIVA DE CRÉDITO, with headquarters at Tv. Humaitá, nº 1001, neighborhood of Pedreira, Belém–PA, CEP: 66.083 -340, registered with the CNPJ under nº 83.315.408/0001 -80, in the use of the attributions that gives it the Social Statute of the Cooperative, calls upon the MEMBERS from all the Cooperative's cores, which on this date number 4,913 (four thousand nine hundred and thirteen), in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet in a General Assembly of Cores, the take place digitally and transmitted via the internet, on March 23, 2021, at 5:00 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 6:00 pm, with the presence of half one more member, on second call; and at 7:00 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly Platform * accessed via the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the Agenda: 1. Election of Core Coordinators and Substitutes; 2. Endorsement of the Program Regulations Belonging to the Social Fund and Internal Regulations; 3. Accounting for the 2020 Fiscal Year; 4. Apportionment and allocation of surpluses determined; 5. Establishment of fees for the Executive Board, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, attendance certificates and travel allowances for members of the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board and Executive Board; 6. Election of members of the 2021 Fiscal Council. Belém (PA), February 28, 2021. Dr. Wilson of Silva Machado Chairman of the Board of Directors Classification of information: Unrestricted Use OBSERVATIONS: 1. Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the meeting participation tool will be available to members on the website http://www .sicredinorte.com.br/asse mbleias and at the cooperative's headquarters; 2. To participate in the digital assembly, the member must follow the following steps: a) Check that the your phone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or go to your cooperative; b) Through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, register by creating a password; c) On the day and time of the Assembly, access the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital again, enter your CPF and registered password, click on your cooperative's event and you will be able to participate in the discussions and votes on the items in the Assembly. Day order; 3. To members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, will be guaranteed the right to express themselves in writing, addressed to the board of directors, via chat, thus safeguarding their full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020; 4. Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of voting. Assembly, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool, written voting via chat; 5. The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43 -A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN -DRE I nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request; 6. At the time of this publication, the Electoral Commission appointed by the Administrative Council ; 7. The deadline for closing registrations for Center Coordinator and Fiscal Councilor will be at 4:00 pm on March 12, 2021. *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: Access the tool through website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, register and identify yourself with your CPF and password. On the day and time indicated in the preamble, using any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time they will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time.