1 Iguatemi Business Avenida Nilo Peçanha, 2.900 9th floor - Chácara das Pedras 91.330-001- Porto Alegre - RS - Brazil Tel: +55 51 3204-5500 ey.com.br Independent auditor's report on the financial statements To the Administrators and Associates of Sicredi Norte - Credit Union (formerly known as Sicredi Belém - Credit Union) Belém / PA Opinion We have examined the financial statements of Sicredi Norte - Credit Union (formerly known as Sicredi Belém - Credit Union) (“Cooperative”), which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2021, and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year ended on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all respects, relevant, the equity and financial position of Sicredi Norte - Cooperativa de Crédito (formerly known as Sicredi Belém - Cooperativa de Crédito) on December 31, 2021, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, of in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with standards Brazilian and international auditing. Our responsibilities, in accordance with such standards, are described in the following section entitled “Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and we comply with the other ethical responsibilities of accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report The Cooperative's board of directors is responsible for this other information that comprises the Management Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Management Report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion thereon. report. In connection with the audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Management Report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or, otherwise, it appears to be materially distorted. If, based on the work carried out,2 we conclude that there is a material misstatement in the Management Report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Management and governance responsibilities for the financial statements The management is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and for the internal controls that it determined as necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements free from material misstatement, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the board of directors is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of the financial statements unless the board of directors intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no realistic alternative to avoid closing operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing the financial statements. Auditor's Responsibilities for Auditing the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and to issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any existing relevant distortions. Misstatements may arise from fraud or error and are considered material when, individually or collectively, they may influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users taken based on said statements. financial. As part of the audit performed, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. In addition:  We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, whether caused by fraud or error, plan and perform audit procedures in response to such risks, as well as obtain appropriate audit evidence and enough to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, omission or intentional false representations.  We have obtained an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Cooperative’s internal controls.  We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board.3  We conclude on the adequacy of the use, by the board, of the going concern accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is material uncertainty regarding events or conditions that may raise significant doubt regarding the ability to continue as a going concern operation of the Cooperative. If we conclude that material uncertainty exists, we should draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or include a modification of our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer remain in operational continuity.  We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner consistent with the objective of fair presentation. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other things, the scope and timing of planned audit engagements and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, March 15, 2022 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC – 2SP015199/F-7 Américo F. Ferreira Neto Contador CRC-1SP192685/O-9