Classification of information: Unrestricted use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT ALIANÇA RS/SC/ES - SICREDI ALIANÇA RS/SC/ES CNPJ no. 87.795.639/0001 -99 CALL NOTICE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Digital Modality The President of Aliança Credit Cooperative RS/SC/ES - Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, using the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the core delegates, which on this date total 67 (sixty-seven) to meet in ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 19, 2023, at 5:30 pm (ten seventeen hours and thirty minutes), in first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates; in second call, at 6:30 pm (eighteen hours and thirty minutes), with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and in third and final call, at 7:30 pm (nineteen hours and thirty minutes), with the presence minimum of 10 (ten) legacies. The Assembly will be carried out in digital mode, transmitted from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Rua Gustavo S ilveira Ferret, n° 124, Bairro Santa Lúcia, in this city, to all delegates, simultaneously, using the Belonging Tool * accessed at via the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; B) balance of the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Fiscal Council. 2. Destination of leftovers. 3. Ratification of the Remuneration Standard for Statutory Members. 4. Ratification of the Administrator Succession Policy. 5. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Marau - RS, April 5, 202 3. Ivo Miri Bru gnera President Classification of information: Unrestricted Use NOTES: 1. The Assembly will be held in digital format, the modality of which is supported by art. 17 - A of Complementary Law No. 130/2009, as well as in DREI Normative Instruction No. 81, of June 10, 2020. 2. The Remuneration Rule for Statutory Members and the Directors' Succession Policy are found available at the Cooperative headquarters. 3. *Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: Delegates must access the tool through the website www.sicredi. com.br/asse mblei as, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, on any device with internet, registering for identification, opportunity and in which their entry into the Assembly will be admitted. The digital mechanism used will allow delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote operation. 4. The Assembly will be recorded electronically.