Classification of information: Unrestricted Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT ALIANÇA RS/SC/ES - SICREDI ALIANÇA RS/SC/ES CNPJ no. 87.795.639/0001 -99 CALL NOTICE CORE ASSEMBLY Digital Modality The President of the Credit Cooperative Aliança RS/SC/ES - Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, using the powers conferred on it by article 5, § 2 of the Belonging Regulation, invites all members of the 67 (sixty-seven) centers of the Cooperative to participate from the CORE ASSEMBLY, to be held on February 23, 2023, at 19 (december) hours and 30 (thirty) minutes, in digital mode, remotely, transmitted live from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located on Rua Gustavo S ilveira Ferret, no. 124, Santa Lucia neighborhood, in the municipality of Marau/RS, for all members, simultaneously, using the Belonging Tool *. Members who are unable to participate on the date that the meeting will be broadcast live will have the opportunity to present your vote, also digitally, on the same platform, from the end of the broadcast of the meeting on February 23, 2023, until 23 (twenty-three) hours and 59 (fifty-nine) minutes of February 27, 2023, to consider and deliberate, as a Nucleus, on the following AGENDA I. Election of Nucleus Delegate and Substitutes, for the purposes of representing the Nucleus' members at the General Assemblies of the Cooperative, according to art. 16 of the Bylaws and in accordance with the Belonging Regulations. II. Define the position (vote) of each Nucleus in relation to the matters that will be the subject of the 2023 Ordinary General Assembly of the Cooperative, which will be presented by the respective Nucleus Delegate, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws: 1. Provision of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet of the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Ratification of the Remuneration Standard for Statutory members. 4. Ratification of the Administrator Succession Policy. Classification of information: Unrestricted Use 5. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature): a) Make members aware of the deliberations held at the Extraordinary General Assembly on 12/22/2022. Marau - RS, February 10, 202 3. Ivo Miri Brugnera President NOTES: 1. *Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: delegates must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/ assemblies, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, including the legal representative of a legal entity member (if applicable), on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. 2. The Assembly will be held in digital format, the modality of which is supported by the Pertencer Regulation, in its art. 5th, § 8th. 3. The Assembly will be recorded and electronically.