Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 2 Annual Report 2021 Bem Maior (Music Sicredi Raízes 40 years old) Cristiano & R odrigo You know the feeling of being at home, being safe... Feeling the present embracing the future You know when you can acr edit In the strength of the earth to plant the seed And everything that is harvested is also ours... A place where those who cooperate have a place and a voice A place where we are the ones who are part of it all A place where there is someone who looks at who needs a place who takes care of what is yours like a family! A family! Sicredi Raízes Joining forces, new frontiers… 2x Sicredi Raízes Growing together is our flag Where ideals came together as one Where having you is our greatest asset Our greatest asset In 2021 Sicr edi Raíz es RS/SC/MG completed its 40 years . To mark this story of cooperation and work for the development of people and communities, the song “Bem Maior” was created. The lyrics, music and production were based on our roots, brings our values, cultures and feelings. Furthermore, the song was performed by collaborators from the C ooperativ a. Our annual report is now digital Adaptation is a word that is present in our daily lives. Be it in the way we learn, use technology and even interact. Today, our focus is physical, a balanced mix between the physical and digital environments. In view of these adaptations, the ease of access and reach, we transformed our annual report into a digital file. In it you will find essential information and stay up to date with the last year of Sicredi Raíz es, decisions we put into practice, such as our expansion to Minas Gerais and much more. Our numbers, strengths and social action programs make a positive impact on the lives of employees and associates. Through the following information you will be able to check our development and presence in the daily life of your community. Happy reading!Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG Message from the leadership 4 Annual Report 2021 What is our purpose with the communities? What are the moments that marked our history? How do we make a difference in people's lives and how do they move and are part of our history? And our roots, how do they feed all of this? These were some of the questions that served as a guide for our cooperative in 2021. The year in which we turned 40 years . Where we reconnect with our essence, we remember our history, its precursors, the encouragers and each person who dedicated themselves with care and competence so that our trajectory was guided by success. When we stop to reflect, we feel deeply connected to our communities. With the virtuous circle that we feed together with you, who are our associates. It is through the revenue generated by the use of our products and be services that build results that go far beyond ﬁnancial. We drive commerce and the local economy, we encourage the development of agribusiness, so that the resources generated here stay here, promoting employment, income and economically developed communities. And it is through this movement that we carry out our social action programs, such as Apoiar/Social Fund, the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis, the School Cooperatives and the P The Union Makes Life program. Programs focused on education, health incentives, sports and culture, which sow values ​​and actions that foster a better world, more economically united, more egalitarian and with opportunities for all. This moves us, these are our roots: developed, collaborative people and communities committed to building a more prosperous society. It was this purpose that moved our first steps and that guides us until today. We thank you for being part of this journey and we invite you to write the next chapters with us. Cooperative greetings, Board of Directors of Sicr edi Raíz es RS/SC/MG. Our cooperative Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 34,353 R$676 agencies in collaborative service and 60 thousand members thousand reais allocated to Apoiar/Social Fund Our numbers 72 municipalities in our area of ​​operation R$1.1 billion R$300 million Resources managed Growth of + 13.8% R$1.2 billion Credit Portfolio Growth of +30.8% Net Equity Growth of +18.1% Result of more than 53.5 million Growth of +33.23%Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 5 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Grande PalmeiraOur history Sicredi Raízes 06/16/1981 On this date, Sicredi Grande Palmeira was founded. Twenty agricultural associates, encouraged by the resurgence of credit cooperatives and supported by production cooperatives, joined forces to create Cr edipalma, whose main objective was to finance the activities of its members. 07/10/1992 Cr edipalma is now called Sicredi P almeir a das Missões. 2013 The cooperative now has the Regional Superintendency Sicredi Grande P almeira, its own structure that provides administrative and development support for activities. 2003 Admission of members becomes free and is renamed Sicredi Grande Palmeira. 1995 On March 29, together with the union of C ooperativ a Creditepo, the word Sicredi became part of the name.Sicredi Celeiro 10/06/1981 Under the initial name C ooperativ a de Cr édito Rural de C ampo No vo LTDA. (Credinov o), the foundation takes place through the initiative of 21 people, its founding partners.05/01/1982The cooperative's affiliation with the Central of cooperatives in the state of RS occurs. to the state of Santa C atarina and approval by members of Free Admission. 2010 Our cooperative begins to work with its own superintendency. The new area of ​​activity now comprises 72 municipalities in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Minas Gerais. The cooperative that emerged after the union has 34 branches in operation in the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina and Minas Gerais, with more than 59 thousand members. In addition, it offers an associate support network made up of around 340 employees. September 2019 Sicredi Celeiro and Sicredi Grande Palmeira begin negotiations for the union process. 06/15/2020The superintendency starts to work in an integrated manner, with a single headquarters in T rês Passos/RS. 06/08/2020The union of bases makes the start of work at Sicr edi Raíz es RS/SC /MG official. March 2020 Members approve the union of cooperatives in Core Assemblies. And the Associates of Sicredi Celeiro Sul Minas RS/SC/MG approve the expansion of the area of ​​activity for the state of Minas Gerais.11/05/2020 The core coordinators of Sicredi Celeiro RS/SC and Sicredi Grande Palmeira RS participate in the Virtual Extraordinary General Assembly to assess the opinion on the union of the two cooperatives. June 1981 - through the mobilization of production cooperatives operating in the northwest region of Rio Grande do Sul, Sicredi Celeiro (June 10) and Sicredi Grande Palmeira (June 16) emerge. Its precursors were, for the most part, local farmers who sought support and support for the growth of their activities.History of the Cooperatives Sicredi Celeiro RS/SC and Sicredi Grande PalmeiraSicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 6 Annual Report 2021Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 7 Annual Report 2021Retrospective 2021 Sicredi RaízesIn addition to the continuous process of transformation that we followed in 2021, some important events made the year even more special, see below: Opening of the Tunápolis Branch Tunápolis r Received a new agency in May. Modern and welcoming, it came to contribute to the expansion of credit cooperatives in the city and reﬂect the performance of the cooperative ﬁnancial institution. Reopenings in RS Transformations also took place in our branches, the municipalities of Braga, Bom Progresso and Boa Vista das Missões, which had their units reopened. The agencies received new spaces or had their environments renovated to meet the needs of more closely associated. New branch in Boa Vista das Missões New branch in Bom P rogresso New branch in Braga Designed with a modern design, which aims to offer members a more personalized service, the branches offer an even more collaborative experience and present aspects of the brand of Sicredi, making the space also a place of proximity and coexistence between members.Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 8 Annual Report 2021Highlights in 2021 Digital Assembly Due to the pandemic scenario caused by the new coronavirus, we held our core assembly in digital format in 2021. The format provided for the member to access a platform created especially for holding action of the Assembly. When accessing the member, a video was available with all the agenda and information. After following each one of them, he can vote digitally. The assembly is one of the main moments of Sicr edi and the Credit Cooperative segment. Our president, V itor Rizzardi, presented the agenda to the cooperative's members. Institutional Clocks The Cooperativ delivered three new street clocks during the last year. The municipalities covered were São Miguel do Oeste/SC, Mondaí/SC and Dois Irmãos das Missões/RS. They were fixed on public land, next to the central construction sites of the municipalities. This is a delivery that will constantly bring information community-relevant information such as temperature, time, date and informational messages. Institutional clocks are a reference tool for the population, transmitting information of public utility to the local community. Today, they are traditional landmarks for Sicr edi Raíz es in the municipalities in its area of ​​operation. São Miguel do Oeste/SC Mondaí/SC Dois Irmãos das Missões/RSSicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 9 Annual Report 2021A 40-year trajectory! In June 1981, two groups of farmers, traders and citizens interested in the social and economic development of their communities started two cooperatives: Cr edino vo, in Campo No vo/RS, and Cr edipalma, in Palmeira das Missões/RS. Over the years, both grew, expanded and, supported by their associates and guided by the purpose of building a more prosperous society together, came together to create Sicr edi Raíz es RS/SC/MG. Therefore, in 2021, the cooperative will celebrate or his four decades of collaborative work in communities. Celebrating with the community Agencies decorated to celebrate Due to the current situation, the concept of celebration had to be reformulated. In this way, seeking proximity and celebrating the date with the members, who are the owners of the cooperative enterprise, all Sicr edi Raíz es branches were decorated during the cooperative's 40th anniversary week. Tourist signs were delivered to municipalities To mark its presence in the communities, the cooperative carries out or delivers tourist signs to the 29 municipalities in its area of ​​operation in which it has active agencies. This type of sign is famous in the main tourist cities in the world, being an urban intervention that brings residents and visitors a feeling of pride and belonging, which is the objective of the institution, further valuing the potential of the municipality. The delivery took place based on the seventh principle of cooperativism – Interest in Communities – where the Cooperative and local collectivity are magnetically linked, exerting reciprocal attraction. Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 11 Annual Report 2021Celebrating with the community Press partner in our 40 years of history The press has always been a great ally of the communities where the C ooperativ operates. Both in publicizing the actions we carry out and in dissemination of information that helps in the economic and social development of our communities. Therefore, we celebrate our birthday also by your side, with an act of thanks, closeness and belonging. In addition, we held a draw for commemorative pies during the programming of our partner radio stations during the week of our anniversary, targeting listeners who were members of the community. Employees celebrate 40 years through a live To celebrate Sicr edi Raíz es’ birthday, employees were brought together through a live. So that everyone can celebrate the moment with their families. The event was broadcast exclusively to the work team, outsourced employees and board members. On this occasion, the music created for the 40th anniversary of Sicr edi Raíz es was presented, which is available on the second page of this report. Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 12 Report Annual 2021Retrospective 2021 Sicredi RaízesProximity and simplicity are part of our essence. It is through values ​​like these that we support and are present in our communities. Strengthening relationships in Minas Gerais! We visited the Minas Gerais municipalities of Curvelo, Bocaiúv a, Corinto, Joaquim F elício and Olhos D'Água. They are part of the cooperative's area of ​​operation in Minas Gerais. At the moment, our team has visited city halls, entities and means of communication with the aim of strengthening relationships and moving forward with negotiations for the openings of our expansion project. Support for local initiatives With the resumption of events after a critical period of the Pandemic, local entities and communities are returning to carrying out movements such as sports championships, meetings and fairs. In this sense, we provide support in the form of sponsorship for the realization of these moments with the communities. Signing of a sponsorship contract with Fáismo, in São Miguel do Oeste/SC Partnership in the holding of a sports championship in the municipality of T enente Portela/RSSupport for the holding of a Cinema session through Sesc in the municipality of Sede Nova /RS Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 13 Annual Report 2021Proximity to communities On the radio waves Seeking to be even closer to our associates, our employees were present at various times in local radio programs. Focusing on matters of collective interest, information and news, as well as news related to cooperativism and the day-to-day life of the cooperative. Meetings with the regional press We held a series of meetings with the press in your area of ​​activity. The winds occurred in a regionalized manner in the municipalities of Tenente Portela/RS, Três Passos/RS, Palmeira das Missões/RS and Iporã do Oeste/SC. With the aim of seeking integration between press bodies and representatives of the Cooperative, the moment was marked by a dynamic interaction. Everyone present gave their presentation, which brought closeness and the sharing of stories. Manager Iv anice, from the municipality of Mondaí/SC, participating in a program on Rádio P orto Feliz Iporã do Oeste/SC Tenente P ortela/RS Três Passos/RSPalmeira das Missões/RSSicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 14 Annual Report 2021Qualified employeesDuring the year r We hold various training sessions, meetings and networking moments to increasingly prepare our team of employees for better service with attitude and protagonism in their daily lives. CVS – How to sell products We carry out the qualification of all employees in the business area, aiming at an in-depth understanding of the associate's needs, as well as training in commercial approach techniques. Decolar – Potential Development Program We started a leadership preparation group in agencies. For this objective we address topics such as self-knowledge, emotional intelligence, feedback and other topics that permeate the management challenge. VPS – Volition to serve The teams from the Regional Superintendency and Managers from the administrative areas were able to reflect on empathy in serving users, expanding the perception of the impact of their deliveries on the member. Integration of es mineir collaborators In the month of December In March we began a cultural immersion for new employees who will work in Minas Gerais, seeking to integrate and generate exchanges. It took weeks to get to know the cooperative and the way of relating to members. Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 15 Annual Report 2021Social action programs Last year, 62 projects were included in the allocation of a total of R$350 thousand, impacting around 35 thousand people directly and more than 340 thousand people indirectly. Furthermore, in April 2021, R$350,000 were transferred through the Apoiar/Social Fund to 13 hospitals that serve the municipalities where Sicr edi Raíz es is present. The Apoiar/Social Fund is a complement of the social actions that we already develop in our municipalities. Our commitment to economic and social development aims to promote the sustainable growth of communities. You can find out more about the program by visiting: https: //www .sicredi.com.br /coop/ roots/apoiar -fundo - social/ Project contemplated in Itapiranga/SC Hospital contemplated in T enente P ortela We cooperate for a sustainable ﬁnancial life and therefore, we bring ﬁnancial education to regions in that we are present, driving the growth of our associates and the places where they work, contributing to a more prosperous society. Barra do Guari ta/RS São João do Oeste/SCSicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 16 Annual Report 2021O pr The program seeks to expand learning opportunities for children and adolescents, experiencing the values ​​and principles of cooperativism. We are present in 5 municipalities of the Cooperative with 8 School Cooperatives in operation. In total, 260 associated students. School Cooperative of Miraguaí/RS School Cooperative of Sede Nova/RS Sicredi's main social responsibility initiative aims to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. In operation since 2002 and is active in the municipalities of Derrubadas, Vista Gaúcha and Boa Vista das Missões. Around 1112 students are impacted. Opening of the 2021 school year took place online Project carried out in the municipality of Derrubadas/RS Cooperation Day or “C Day” is a national movement to encourage voluntary initiatives carried out by cooperatives, with the objective ed in developing social responsibility actions, putting into practice cooperative values ​​and principles. In our C ooperative, every year, our volunteers mobilize on behalf of the communities through various social actions. In 2021, around 31,445 people were impacted in 29 actions carried out by our agencies. Collection of clothing in Mondaí/SCSicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 17 Annual Report 2021+Cooperative Grows +Associate Wins +Economy Grows +Business Generated +Jobs+Social Impact +Products and Services used Together we build a more prosperous society Virtuous circle of C ooperativism When you use our financial solutions, the resources generated through the result stay in our region. being reinvested here, in the form of credit release, circulation in local commerce and income generation. Thus, we foster a virtuous circle that contributes to the economic and social development of our region.Sicredi Raízes RS/SC/MG 18 Annual Report 2021Sicredi Raíz es RS SC MG @sicr ediraiz esrsscmg