CREDIT COOPERATIVISM Credit cooperatives were created to meet the needs of members through financial and non-financial solutions, they are an important incentive instrument for economic and social development. Sicredi was the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. We generate value for the locations where we operate by raising funds from members and lending to members in the same region. The permanence of this resource in local creates a virtuous cycle that stimulates income generation and a cycle of sustainable growth, with a greater supply of jobs, local products and economic development. IN THIS REPORT, YOU WILL FIND INFORMATION ABOUT 2022 RESULTS AND ACTIONS OF SICREDI BIOMAS THINK GLOBAL, ACT LOCALANNUAL REPORT SICREDI BIOMAS MT AC AM 2022SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY At Sicredi, we operate in line with the main global concepts relating to sustainable development, generating value to our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our incorporation we have kept a close eye on our impacts. This concern was materialized in a robust Sustainability Strategy, which incorporates the best management practices on the topic and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. To guide our Sustainability Strategy, we have established our sustainability and focal themes. Strengthen our governance model16 Promote inclusion and diversity105 Spread cooperativism and sustainability168 4 Promote financial education4 1 Ensure integrated risk management 813 15 16 Promote the local economy810 12 17 Promote eco-efficient management12 13 7 Promote people development816 4 Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management8 916 Contribute to the development of communities 417 Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact8 911 12 13 15 7Promoting financial inclusion810 Since 2020, we have been a member of the Global Compact, a voluntary action of the United Nations (UN), which provides principles, guidelines, information and tools for promoting Sustainable Development and Citizenship.GovernanceRelationship and Cooperation Strengthen our business model in a sustainable way Local development Prom over transformation positive actions in the locations where we are present Responsible solutions Operate in a sustainable way elSICREDI BIOMAS 66,092 ASSOCIATES R$ 262 million NET PROFIT 27 BRANCHES R$ 1.4 million DEPOSIT VOLUME 25 CITIES R$ 2.8 billion CREDIT PORTFOLIO Our positive impact Aligned with our purpose of building a more prosperous society together, and our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the lives of associates and society, we present here, how we do this in practice. Strengthening cooperativism Through the Crescer Program, we disseminated cooperativism in the region where Sicredi operates to members and non-members, where 100 thousand people have already undergone cooperative training. With the Pertencer Program, we encourage the participation of members in assemblies and in cooperative decision-making processes. During 2022, 11 thousand associated members participated in our assemblies. Volunteering In 2022, the Sicredi Biomas carried out the It's from the heart, it's cooperation campaign and collected food, food, toys and children's books that were distributed in all the municipalities in which we operate. The action also included the collection of toys and children's books. The initiative incorporated by partners and the community distributed 4,802 basic food baskets among the community, totaling more than 73 tons of food, 953 kilos of food, 2,296 toys and 246 children's books. Social Fund With the aim of serving private non-profit entities, since 2020 Sicredi Biomas has made part of the financial result available. In 2022, Sicredi Biomas served 71 entities in our area of ​​operation in MT, AC and AM. R$1,082,700.00 was made available to be applied to registered entities and projects. Satisfaction of our employees We carried out our Climate Survey based on the Great Place to Work (GPTW) methodology, which lists the best companies to work for. In 2022, the confidence level of our employees was 89%. President's Table Here at Sicredi, the Board of Directors has been carrying out the President's Table project since 2018. This project aims to listen even more to the cooperative's members and collaborators in order to identify what can be improved, whether in the branches, in the way of serving the member, in granting credit, or even in the cooperative's senior management. In 2022, suggestions from employees and associates were collected which are being handled by different areas of Sicredi Biomas. Education of children and adolescents Through our educational programs we aim to expand the learning opportunities of children and adolescents. Thus, in 2022, the A União Faz a Vida Program developed more than a thousand projects. Today, the program involves the involvement of more than 18 thousand children and adolescents, 2,145 teachers and employees, 61 educational institutions, both public and private, in 19 cities . Financial education Through our financial education initiatives, we encourage the conscious use of financial products and services and the creation and maintenance of good habits, with the aim of improving people's relationship with money and helping them to have a sustainable financial life . In 2022, 16 thousand people were impacted through actions carried out by the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, including actions carried out during National Education Week Financial Education (ENEF Week), an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF). Climate Change We work to combat Climate Change. We annually count our Greenhouse Gas emissions and neutralize 100% of them. Sustainability In 2022, Sicredi Biomas also implemented the Sustainability Committee, which aims to monitor indicators relating to the Social, Environmental and Economic pillars and, when necessary, propose actions to the Board of Directors. Cooperative Administration.