Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT UNIVALES – SICREDI UNIVALES MT/RO CNPJ: 70.431.630/0001 -04 NIRE Nº: 5140000250 -9 ADDRESS: Avenida Mato Grosso, no. 690 N, Bairro Módulo I, in Juína – MT CEP: 78.320 -000 - PHONE: (66)3566 -7900 MINUTES OF EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Digital Mode I. DATE, TIME, PLACE: On the 25th day of April 2023, at 1:30 pm (thirteenth) hours and (thirty) minutes, carried out in digital mode and transmitted by video conference to delegates at the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Avenida Mato Grosso, no. 690 N, Bairro Módulo I, in the city of Juína - MT, using the Microsoft Teams platform, with guaranteed participation and voting in person and remotely, with the full recording of the act being stored at the Cooperative. The General Assembly was held digitally, as authorized by art. 43-A of Law No. 5,764/1971 and art. 17-A of Complementary Law No. 130/2009, as amended by Complementary Law No. 196/2022. II. ATTENDANCE: The General Assembly was held on the 3rd call with the presence of 66 (sixty-six) delegates able to vote, according to physical and electronic records stored at the Cooperative and certified in the Book of Attendance at General Assemblies. Total Cooperative delegates: 73 (seventy-three) delegates. III. CALL: The Extraordinary General Assembly was called in the form required by legislation, declaring that the following procedures were cumulatively observed: a) the call notice was posted in appropriate places in the Cooperative's service units, from 04/14/2023 to 04/25/ 2023. b) the call notice was published on April 14, 2023 electronically and on April 15, 2023 physically, in the newspaper Diário de Cuiabá, page A7; and in the newspaper Gazeta de Rondônia, page 10. c) communication was made to members through circular communication no. 001 of April 14, 2023. Information classification: Internal Use Information classification: Internal Use IV. AGENDA: 1. Reform and consolidation of the bylaws in their full version. V. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD: President of the Assembly: Mr. Juares Antonio Cividini; Secretary of the Assembly: Mr. Luiz Carlos Padovani; Executive Director: Mr. Edson Elvio Arrial; Director to of Operations: Mrs. Vilma Aparecida dos Santos Ribeiro; Business Director: Mr. Marcio Jose Longhi Szesko; President of Central Sicredi Centro Norte: Mr. João Carlos Spenthof VI. DELIBERATIONS: 1. Reform and consolidation of the Cooperative's bylaws in its full version. The President presented the proposal to reform and consolidate the Cooperative's bylaws and explained the planned changes, which seek to update the text to the provisions of the Complementary Law No. 196/2022 (LC196) or simply improve the document, according to the points specified below: Art. 2: change in the content of the article to include the Central's disaffiliation procedures provided for in LC196 and renumbering of paragraphs. Art. 3: renumbering of the sole paragraph, which becomes paragraph 1, and inclusion of paragraph 2, contemplating the possibility of making financial and non-financial products and services available to non-members, including payment services in the modalities of accreditor and payment transaction initiator, as authorized by LC196. Art. 4: inclusion of a single paragraph authorizing the Cooperative's participation in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary purposes Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use or accessories, in the interest of social and community framework, in line with the prediction contained in LC196. Art. 5: change in the possibilities of association to include depersonalized entities, in addition to these and natural and legal persons who reside or are established in the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Centro Norte, excluding, for this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of action by cooperatives affiliated to another Central of the Sicredi System; adjustments to the wording of paragraph 3 and, to adequacy to LC196, also in item I of paragraph 3, which deals with the prohibition of the association of competitors. Art. 12: inclusion of new paragraph 8 contemplating the unseizability of shares in the capital (LC196); renumbering of other paragraphs; simplification of the wording of new paragraph 16, which deals with the relaxation of the criteria for withdrawing share capital; and inclusion of paragraph 22 dealing with the reversion to the reserve fund of unpaid capital balances sought by members after five years of dismissal, as provided for in LC196. Art. 13: simple restructuring of the article, inserting in a new paragraph 5 the possibility of holding general assemblies and core assemblies in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously – structure used by LC196. Art. 14: amendment of the provisions related to the calling of meetings, excluding the obligation to publish notice in a newspaper, as provided for in LC 196, and clarifying formal aspects of the notice related to the mode of access, participation and voting in remote or in-person and remote meetings simultaneously, with adjustments to the caput of the article and restructuring of its sections and paragraphs . Art. 18: amendment of the wording of paragraph 2 to establish that voting at core assemblies will be open or closed, as defined by the Board of Directors. Art. 24: inclusion new item V including the approval of the Executive Board's remuneration policy among the matters within the competence of the Ordinary General Assembly, as provided for in LC196; renumbering of the last item. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 27: simple adjustment in the wording of the caput and section I; replacement of the current section VII with the new sections VII, VIII, IX, X and XI, aligned with CMN Resolution No. 4,970/2021; renumbering of the other items, with adjustments to the wording of item XVIII; inclusion of a new paragraph 1 clarifying how the requirement for an unblemished reputation is assessed; renumbering of other paragraphs; inclusion of a new paragraph 4 that establishes a 30-day deadline for those elected to the Board of Directors to take office, after authorization from the regulatory body. Art. 28: adjustments to the wording of paragraph 3, clarifying that meetings of the Board of Directors may be face-to-face, distance or face-to-face and distance simultaneously, terminology used by LC196. Art. 29: inserts new item V that confers powers on the Board of Directors to register the vacancy of its members and the members of the Executive Board; renumbering of other items; adjustments to the new item XIII to reflect the provisions of LC196; inclusion of item XVIII and XIX which, in the wake of LC196, allows the Board of Directors to approve policies for the attracting new members and/or increasing share capital by the membership, as well as authorizing the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing capital Social . Art. 32: inclusion of a new paragraph 4 that establishes a 30-day deadline for those elected to the Executive Board to take office, after authorization from the regulatory body; and renumbering of the remaining paragraphs. Art. 33: simple adjustment in the references of items I and II. Art. 38: change in the composition of the Fiscal Council, which now consists of three effective members and one alternate member, in accordance with LC196; adjustments to the caput remission; inclusion of a new paragraph 4 that establishes a 30-day deadline for those elected to the Fiscal Council to take office, after authorization from the regulatory body; and renumbering of the last paragraph. Art. 39: amendment of the caput to provide that Fiscal Council meetings may occur on an ordinary basis at least every two months; inclusion of paragraph 4 Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use clarifying that Fiscal Council meetings may be in-person, remotely or in-person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 40: amendment of paragraph 1 to establish that in the event of two or more vacancies on the Fiscal Council, a meeting must be called for recomposition. Art. 42: reformulation of drafting of the caput, without changing the content. Art. 44: amendment to section III to allow the use of FATES resources also in favor of the community located in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, as authorized by LC196; inclusion of a new section V mentioning the possibility of using surpluses to replenish the guarantee funds; renumbering of the following items. Art. 54: amendment to article 54 providing for the counting of re-elections that will begin after the 2025 Ordinary General Meeting for members of the Board of Directors. Art. 55: insertion of art. 55 to formalize the extinction of the Fiscal Council. After the presentation was held and the doubts presented were clarified, the proposal to reform the Cooperative's bylaws was put to a vote and approved in full by a majority greater than 2/3 (two thirds) of the participating delegates, now having the following wording consolidated: Bylaws full BYLAWS OF THE COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT UNIVALES – SICREDI UNIVALES MT/RO CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Duration Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 1 The Univales Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative – Sicredi Univales MT/RO, established at the meeting general of March 11, 1993, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal venue in Avenida Mato Grosso, nº 690 N, Neighborhood Módulo 01, CEP: 78.320 -000, municipality of Juína in this State of Mato Grosso; II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi Centro Norte, limited to the municipalities of Juína, Apiacás, Aripuanã, Brasnorte, Castanheira, Colniza, Cotriguaçu, Juara, Juruena, Nova Bandeirantes, Nova Monte Verde, Novo Horizonte do Norte, Porto dos Gaúchos, Rondolândia and Tabaporã in the State of Mato Grosso; Vilhena, Alta Floresta do Oeste, São Miguel do Guaporé, Rolim de Moura, Ouro Preto do Oeste, Pimenta Bueno, Espigão do Oeste, Cacoal, Ji Paraná, Colorado do Oeste, Alto A legre do Parecis, Alto Paraíso, Ariquemes, Buritis, Cabixi, Cacaulândia, Campo Novo de Rondônia, Candeias do Jamari, Chestnut trees, Cherry trees, Chupinguaia, Corumbiara, Costa Marques, Cujubim, Governador Jorge Teixeira, Guajará -Mirim, Itapuã do Oeste, Jaru, Machadinho D'Oeste, Minister Andreazza, Mirante da Serra, Monte Negro, Nova Brasilândia D'Oeste, Nova Mamoré , Nova União, Novo Horizonte do Oeste, Parecis, Pimenteiras do Oeste, Presidente Médici, Primavera de Rondônia, Rio Crespo, Santa Luzia D'Oeste, Sã o Felipe D'Oeste, São Francisco do Guaporé, Seringueiras, Teixeirópolis, Theobroma, Urupá , OK Anari, Vale do Paraíso, Alvorada do Oeste and Porto Velho in the State of Rondônia; III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Central North of Brazil - Central Sicredi Centro Norte, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1º The System of Cooperative Credit – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicr edi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and the Sicredi Fundo Gara ntidores (SFG). Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi Centro Norte, on its own initiative or by the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3 Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I - the majority of its members, to become independent; II - the majority of voting members that it represents, in the minimum, 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. §4º In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5 The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - with the systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in the Regulations Internal to Sicredi (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and /or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership of the Central matters, automatically, in solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use III - to loans contracted by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 10. The liability provided for in previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicial demand from the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and from the respective Central. § 11. The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own standards, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so require, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. To Central Sicredi Centro Norte, as coordinator of the actions of the System in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II OF THE SOCIAL OBJECT Art. 3 The Cooperative’s corporate purpose: I - carry out credit cooperative operations, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. § 1 In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. §2º The Cooperative may, at its discretion, make available to non-members all financial and non-financial products and services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, including payment services in the modalities of acquirer and payment transaction initiator. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activity in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - entities depersonalized employees established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; SAW - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; VII - individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities that reside or are established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Centro Norte, excluding, for this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to another Central of the Sicredi System. § 1 The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, which cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in § 2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, in addition to the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of § 2 of art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use IX - anyone who moves values ​​arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, under the terms of current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of sections IV and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, subject to the conditions and requirements established in applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to statutory and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures of interest to the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or a regulatory-statutory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general assembly; VI - have access to regulations internal to the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of these Statutes and other internal regulations of the system; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and in the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bearing in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and for the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which they are approved by the general meeting the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred. § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the shares - subscribed parts, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check Clearing Service and Other Papers, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or culpable, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her own discretion. request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative within 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of regulations Sicredi interns; IV - carrying out acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in your opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use § 4 The eliminated member may file an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5 When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks made, so that within 15 (fifteen) days it can present its reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Administration may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or a general meeting to decide on the dismissal , as appropriate. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. §1 Change of address after joining will not be considered as loss of statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion with based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing as to the minimum, the value of R$ 2,500,000.00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in current currency. § 1 The social capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 1 (one) share. § 3 The member's request for re-entry issued, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may delegate to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete your readmission. § 4º The general assembly, upon proposal of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, the members subscribe and pay new quotas - capital shares, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, monthly subscription and payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. . § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Enrollment Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, The paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deducting losses from the corresponding fiscal year, in compliance with the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting on same period, within 5 (five) years, the criteria of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Information Classification: Internal Use Information Classification: Internal Use Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Company and its compliance with all asset limits requirements required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Social Capital may be refunded to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with surpluses future; and III - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, may , exceptionally, submit a request for withdrawal to the Board of Directors of part of its share capital, maintaining its status as an associate, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 14. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw up to 50% (fifty percent) of their share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, the member may redeem up to 50% (fifty percent) of the value of the share capital, maintaining your status as an associate, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 15. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit to the Board of Directors a request for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 16. The Board of Directors may relax the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital from initiative of the associates, including for the purpose of meeting fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article, provided that the asset limits established by the legislation in force. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use § 17. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 18. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his dismissal from membership. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any dispute on the part of a terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 19. The return referred to in §§ 13, 14, 15 and 16, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be given at the discretion of this and the collegiate body, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative. Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with installments of payment by the Cooperative also being permitted. § 20. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 21. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by it may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with its respective quotas, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital quotas, maintaining its membership status with the established minimum quotas. in § 2 of this article. § 22. Balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded associates will be reverted to the company's reserve fund. cooperative after 5 (five) years of termination. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions on interest of the Society, and the deliberations bind everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. Information classification: Use Internal Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 The rendering of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of members of the administrative and fiscal councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously assessed by the in core assemblies, which may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. § 2 The other matters covered by the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly at Delegate Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform the members later. § 4 The coordination of the core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, or the Vice-President, or, in the event of their impossibility, by whomever he indicates. §5º General assemblies and assemblies centers can be carried out in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, by means of a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's website or in a publicly accessible repository unrestricted on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or by the Fiscal Council, or, after a request is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II - the day and time of the assembly, as well as the way it will be carried out; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for member participation, in the event of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use VII - location, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as it is expressly stated mind of the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The quorum of installation must comply with the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, the mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate in the General assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group they represent. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of delegate vacancies among the centers will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 75 (seventy-five) centers, observing its own regulations; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use II - o grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in person or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, those with the most votes, respectively, among members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4º In case of a tie in the voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in the form of art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general meetings will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2º When the general assembly does not has been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main stakeholders in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use the Center will be represented by his alternate or another appointed associate, as applicable. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except regarding matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for whose validity the votes of 2 /3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. The deliberations and other substantial occurrences in the Assemblies will consist of minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum , like this at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The ordinary general assembly will be held obligatorily once a year, on the legal term, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of fees, attendance cards and bonuses for Board members; V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; SAW - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission constituted specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of active Cooper, assured its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same collegiate. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, made up of individual members, composed of a President and more 8 (eight) advisors, of which 01 (one) of them will serve as Vice President, chosen by deliberation of the Board of Directors, until the first meeting following the inauguration, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, without prejudice to compliance with the additional requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain, since the application, an employment relationship with any entity that is part of the Sicredi, or even, with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related until the 2nd (second) degree, straight or collateral, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V - gather the professional qualification required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII – have an unblemished reputation; VIII – be a resident of the country; IX - not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a bankruptcy crime, tax evasion tax, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property or the National Financial System, or sentenced to a penalty that prohibits, even temporarily, access to positions public; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use operate by the Central Bank of Brazil or in supplementary pension entities, insurance companies, capitalization companies, publicly-held companies or entities subject to the supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission; XI - not be declared bankrupt or insolvent; XII - not have, through intent or negligence, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; XIII - have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (being an active member) and having participated in at least 2 (two) core assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; XIV - have participated, in the immediately previous year, or participated in courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors in the period of his term of office, until a period of 1 (one) year after taking office; XV - have time availability to fully fulfill statutory and legal responsibilities, with accumulation with another position or function (elective or not) that requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative being prohibited; XVI - be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XVII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVIII - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any trademarks owned by the entities that are part of Sicredi; XIX - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with the Rules Sicredi internal. § 1 For the purposes of section VII, the unblemished reputation will be assessed considering the existence of: criminal proceedings or police investigation; judicial or administrative process that is related to the National Financial System or the Brazilian Payment System; proceedings relating to insolvency, liquidation, intervention, bankruptcy or judicial recovery; failure to fulfill obligations; and other similar situations, occurrences or circumstances. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause, nor directors and officers who are subject to internal investigation to determine violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with a renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher integer number must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until the inauguration of their successors, allowing them, since the election, full monitoring of the remaining participation of those who succeed, with only two consecutive re-elections for the same position being permitted. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the person(s) name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice -President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among them, will designate successor(s), the first of which will be the meeting that follows electing new occupant(s) for said position(s), confirming or not the (s) appointed, and the person(s) elected will serve the remaining period of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice President(s) succeeded. Reducing the number of members of the Council to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, must be elected new components within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the missing management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 4 (four) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in form of current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; Classification of information: Internal use Classification of information: Internal use mandate; VI - become the holder ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political - party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, it is understood - if by political position - partisan: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councilman, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with electoral and constitutional legislation current; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the functions of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, ordinarily, at least every 2 (two) months, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the call of its President, the majority of the Board itself, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, whose content the President of the The Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 No advisor may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve conflict of interest, or that concern your relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in regulations systemic: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and fulfillment of the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and competencies and individual remuneration of the Directors, in compliance with the provisions contained in the bylaws; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of annual remuneration on capital shares, stipulating remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general assembly a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate allegations of infractions committed within the company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of applicable penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use XIII - previously authorize capital holdings in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the company's membership and community Cooperative and respected current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV - authorize the alteration of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, the closure, the trial or the change of address of the other dependencies or branches of the cooperative, inside or outside the headquarters, in the municipality, terms of current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XVI - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing share capital by the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. To Chairman of the Board is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the formation of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan to the Board of Directors for consideration, as well as budgetary proposals, following the its execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to others documents and information required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - represent institutionally the Cooperative, in strategic - corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - evaluate in a systematic way the service provided to members on the Cooperative's premises, aiming to ensure satisfaction and the quality of services provided to members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in their licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of companies in which the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, one being an Executive Director and one Director of Operations, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, one Director being Executive, an Operations Director and a Business Director. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or outside of it, actively and passively, except as provided for in section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed-economy companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must have the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to XII and XVII to XIX, as well as § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; Information classification: Internal Use Information classification: Internal Use V – meet the complementary systemic requirements when provided for in the regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations, is responsible for: I - operationally managing the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and the corporate guidelines and strategies of the Sicredi; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective agreements, assigning and pledging or renouncing rights, as well as monitoring the economic and financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Mandate instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a period of time determined, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, observing the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic and financial status of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use internal controls, aimed at security and respect for legislation and Sicredi's internal regulations; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable property, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines found by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities inherent to the Cooperative’s ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members, respecting the authority approved by the Board of Directors. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between executive areas with the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory bodies and inspectors; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - To the Operations Director: a) respond for management analyzes of the statements financial, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) responsible for internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as directing measures in the supervision process and ensuring compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of the tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on systemic strategic planning guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) be responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) respond for execution of the Cooperative's expansion plans in line with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are pertinent to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, however, it may meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 5, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective replacement, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, it may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, through reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause damage to the Company, will be held directly liable, with their own assets, for compensation for the damages. ; § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board of Directors and Directors whose actions or omissions, in accordance with the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) members members and 1 (one) alternate, all associated individuals, elected by the general assembly, observing, regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XIX, of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires complete slate(s), independent(s) and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, with an indication of the order of replacement, subject to the other conditions referred to above. § 1 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2 The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is a member, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, have a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months. § 3 The term of office will be 03 (three) years. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets at least every 2 (two) months on an ordinary basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Your deliberations and other substantial occurrences at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for calling the meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3º If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, they will be replacements were chosen at the time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective directors will be replaced by alternates, following the order established in the election minutes. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting for completion, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 5, of this Statute, it is up to the Board itself to assess the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political - party position, he must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which he the appointment is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Among other duties arising from the legislation, this Statute and systemic regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use I - exercise assiduous supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and acts of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, the availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well such as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of its functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other formally established systemic deliberative bodies, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all the individual cooperatives and their central members of the Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, alerting about the irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals from the management bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for irregular acts and facts of Information Classification: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal use for the administration of the Cooperative, whose practice results from proven omission, carelessness, lack of accuracy, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote responsible action directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated to the as follows: I - 45% (forty-five percent), at least, to the Reserve Fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; II - 05% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in their area of action; III - recomposition of resources from the guarantee funds, in the form of current legislation; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must to be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares - shares of the members' capital or allocated additionally to the Reserve Fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the Reserve Fund, before determining the mandatory destinations; and to the Reserve Fund, or Development and Contingency Fund, or Social Fund, or FATES or leftovers, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the amounts in loss Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use recovered from previous years and other values ​​recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, through surpluses from following years, the remaining balance of losses incurred in the year ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with legal and regulatory rules own. CHAPTER CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the final day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their individual data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members. members who are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when appropriate, the social bodies. Art. 54. For the purposes set out in art. 27, § 3, re-election counting will begin after the Assembly Annual General Meeting of 2025, for members of the Board of Directors. Art. 55. The Fiscal Council will be extinguished as of the 2026 Ordinary General Meeting, with all provisions relating to this Council in these statutes automatically revoked. Just it. VII. DECLARATION AND CERTIFICATION OF PRESENT: The President and Secretary declare that the General Assembly met all legal requirements for its holding. Finally, they certify The following delegates were present at the General Assembly: Gilmar Aparecido Da Silva, Romualdo Jose Da Silva, Ferdinando Guilherme Repohl, Wesley Do s Anjos Borges, Aldecy Vargens Rios, Rodrigo Aparecido Servino, Geovane Torrente Silva, Erpidio Tamankievies, Laerson Guiomar Meier, Marcio Fabiano De Andrade, Anderson Luiz Da Silva Vilella, Nataniel Tomasini, Luciano Silva Dos Santos, Claudioney Jesus Bressan, Marcelino Contini, Lourismar Martins Araujo, Vladimir Perim, Sebastiao Barbosa Lobato, Dosival Ferreira, Edilamar Burille Da Silva, Cleiton Riva Lauro, Beatriz Da Silva Campos Mattos, Elaine Janicleia Silva Tondin, Andressa Francisca De Oliveira Kor b, Sueli De Information classification: Internal use Information classification: Internal use Araujo Cupaioli, Jaqueline Schirmer Antunes Coelho, Fabiano Felber, Claudiomiro Luiz De Lima, Vandriele Maria Kravec Silva, Auri Jorge Stefeni, Jean Paulo Agostini, Jeferson Paz, Walldon Mantelli, Jorge Kunz, Aline Fasbinder Cardoso, Benedita Locatelli Liberato, Joel Junior Candioto, Carlos Roberto Ferreira Martins, Rosilda Armini Da Silva, Tatiana Martinello, Lauri Mezzalira, Vanderlei Garcia, Salete Oleas Bialeski Ghelere, Aiesa Cristina Eidt, Gabriela Lotti, Daiana Santos Cruz, Gilmar Costa D a Silva, Eleandro Cesar Picinini, Felipe Da Silva Domingues, Evelin Krieger Ewald, Heloisa Bastos De Oliveira, Ronaldo Fernandes Da Silva, Clezimar De Souza Chaves, Davi Sales Maia, Sidnei Honorio De Oliveira, Jonas Gomes Dos Santos, Jair Ferreira Matoso, Maicon Adriano Alba, Orvania Castro Da Cunha, Paulo Roberto Mascente De Oliveira, Fatima Aparecida Da Silva Souza, Higo Rabelo Leite, Levi Costa Ferreira, Tiago Arthur Goncalves Walter, Elizete Cardoso Da Silveira, Geneci Barbosa Silva. VIII. SIGNATURES IN THE MINUTE BOOK: President, Mr. Juares Antonio Cividini Secretary, Mr. Luiz Carlos Padovani Designated committee: Mr. Designated committee: Mr. Messrs. Wesley Dos Anjos Borges, Cleiton Riva Lauro, Fabiano Felber, Ivan Alves Pereira, Marcio Henrique Da Silva Santander Mezzomo. IX. CLOSING: WE DECLARE FOR DUE PURPOSES THAT THESE MINUTES ARE A FAITHFUL AND AUTHENTIC COPY OF THOSE WRITTEN IN THE BOOK OF MINUTES OF THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE UNIVALES CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE – SICREDI UNIVALES MT/RO. Juína -MT, April 25, 2023 . Juares Antonio Cividini Luiz Carlos Padovani President Secretary