Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT UNIVALES – SICREDI UNIVALES MT/RO CNPJ: 70.431.630/0001 -04 NIRE Nº: 5140000250 -9 ADDRESS: Avenida Mato Grosso, no. 690 N, Bairro Módulo I, in Juína – MT CEP: 78.320 -000 - PHONE: (66)3566 -7900 MINUTES OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Digital Modality I. DATE, TIME, PLACE: On the 25th day of April 2023, at 1:30 pm (thirteen) hours and (thirty) minutes, carried out digitally and transmitted via video conference to delegates at the Cooperative's headquarters, located at Avenida Mato Grosso, no. 690 N, Bairro Módulo I, in the city of Juína - MT, using the Microsoft Teams Platform , with guaranteed participation and voting in person and remotely, with the full recording of the act being stored at the Cooperative. The General Assembly was held digitally, as authorized by art. 43-A of Law No. 5,764/1971 and art. 17 -A of Complementary Law No. 130/2009, as amended by Complementary Law No. 196/2022. II. ATTENDANCE: The General Assembly was held on the 3rd call with the presence of 66 (sixty-six) delegates able to vote, according to physical and electronic records stored at the Cooperative and certified in the General Assembly Attendance Book. Total Cooperative delegates: 73 (seventy-three) delegates. III. CALL NOTICE: The Ordinary General Assembly was called in the form required by legislation, declaring that the following procedures were cumulatively observed: a) the call notice was posted in appropriate places in the Cooperative's service units, from 04/14/2023 to 04/25/2023 . Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use b) the call notice was published on April 14, 2023 electronically and on April 15, 2023 in physical form, on Diário de Cuiabá newspaper, page A7; and in the newspaper Gazeta de Rondônia, page 10. c) communication was made to members through circular statement no. 001 of April 14, 2023. IV. AGENDA: ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of leftovers; d) audit opinion; and e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Election of the members of the Fiscal Council. 5. Setting the fees of the members of the Supervisory Board. 6. Ratification of the Senior Management Position Succession Policy. 7. Other matters of interest to the membership. V. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD: President of the Assembly: Mr. Juares Antonio Cividini; Secretary of the Assembly: Mr. Luiz Carlos Padovani; CEO: Mr. Edson Elvio Arrial; Director of Operations: Ms. Vilma Aparecida dos Santos Ribeiro; Business Director: Mr. Marcio José Longhi Szesko; President and Central Sicredi Centro Norte: Mr. João Carlos Spenthof; Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Observation: During the deliberation on the rendering of accounts and on fees, bonuses, benefits and attendance cards, Mr. Claudioney presided over the Assembly Jesus Bressan , having stopped voting for board members , fiscal councilors and other legally prevented members . SAW. DELIBERATIONS: UNDER AN ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ending December 31, 2022. The President reported the main activities carried out by the Cooperative in 2022 and the achievements in this year. The Director of Operations , Mrs. Vilma Aparecida dos Santos Ribeiro , gave a brief report of Sicredi's actions and numbers at national, state and regional levels, highlighting the number of members, total deposits, adjusted net equity and surplus, total resources and credit operations. He presented the Cooperative's numbers, making a comparison with previous years. The Director of Operations, Mrs. Vilma Aparecida dos Santos Ribeiro, presented the Balance Sheet and the income statement for the 2022 financial year. Afterwards, Mrs. Vilma Aparecida dos Santos Ribeiro read the opinion of the Independent Audit and Mr. Osvaldo Rauber read the opinion of the Cooperative's Fiscal Council, both in favor of approval of the Balance Sheet, the Income Statement, the Explanatory Notes and other supporting documents for the semester/financial year closed on December 31, 2022. Then, the President passed the work of the table to an associate appointed by the Assembly as Ad Hoc President, in order to conduct the deliberation on the Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use accountability, with Mr. Claudioney Jesus Bressan being appointed as Ad Hoc President. Having provided the necessary clarifications, the Assembly approved by a majority of the delegates present the accounts for the year ending on December 31, 2022. The management councilors, fiscal councilors and others legally prevented from voting failed to vote. two. Disposal of leftovers. The President resumed work and reported that the Cooperative recorded a positive result in the amount of R$ 109,366,093.53 (one hundred and nine million, three hundred and sixty-six thousand and ninety-three reais and fifty-three cents) being paid, in interest to the capital in the amount of R$ 14,190,810.31 (fourteen million, one hundred and ninety thousand, eight hundred and ten reais and thirty-one cents), and allocated, in accordance with the statutory provision and decision of the Board of Administration, the amount of R$ 778,000.00 (seven hundred and seventy-eight thousand reais) to the Social Fund and the amount of R$ 4,488,780.04 (four million, four hundred and eighty-eight thousand, seven hundred and one hundred reais and four cents) to the Expansion Fund, totaling the amount of R$ 5,266,780.04 (five million, two hundred and sixty-six thousand, seven hundred and eighty reais and four cents) referring to the recovery of credit losses from previous years. Thus, the liquid leftovers determined in the 2022 financial year, they amount to R$ 89,908,503.18 (eighty-nine million, nine hundred and eight thousand, five hundred and three reais and eighteen cents), with the value of R $40,458,826.43 (forty million, four hundred and fifty-eight thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six reais and forty-three cents); to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund - FATES the amount of R$ 4,495,425.16 (four million and four hundred and ninety-five thousand, four hundred and twenty-five reais and sixteen cents); remaining at the disposal of the Assembly remaining surpluses in the amount of R$44,954,251.59 (forty-four million, nine hundred and fifty-four thousand, two hundred and fifty-one reais and fifty-nine centavos). Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Next, the members of each Center, by majority, expressed their opinion in favor of that, after paying interest on the capital, making the statutory allocations and other allocations already specified, the remaining surplus must be allocated, by May 30, 2023, as follows: R$ 5,001,725.90 (five million and one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-five reais and ninety cents) to the Cooperative Reserve Fund; R$ 6,000,000.00 (six million) for the Share Capital of members and R$ 33,952,525.69 (thirty-three million, nine hundred and fifty-two one thousand five hundred and twenty-five reais and sixty-nine cents) must be credited to the members' savings account. The members of each Center also approved, by majority, that the leftovers must be distributed proportionally to the use of the Cooperative's products and services, using the following criteria: Current Account (Cash deposit) 6% (six percent); Investments (Time Deposit) 49% (forty-nine percent); Savings Deposits 18% (eighteen per cent); Investment in LCA (Agribusiness Credit Letter) 2% (two percent); Deposits in Automatic Application 2% (two percent); Product Use Cards (Plastic) 2% (two percent); Use of the Insurance Product 4% (four percent); Use of the Consortium Product 1% (one percent); Product Use Charge 3.5% (three point five percent); Use of the Relationship Basket Product and fees 1% (one percent); Use of the Product Machine Sicredi Cards 3.5% (three point five percent); Commercial Credit and Financing (Interest Paid) 6% (six percent) and Special/Business Check Interest 2% (two percent). 3. Election of members for the Fiscal Council The Coordinator of the Assembly informed that only one slate was registered for the Fiscal Council and that the candidates were previously evaluated, and the regularity of the candidacy was verified. Then, after carrying out the necessary clarifications, the Assembly Coordinator put the registered list to vote, having been elected by the majority Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use of the delegates present the following components for the Cooperative's Fiscal Council: Effective Councilors: Mr. Osvaldo Rauber, Brazilian, born on 11/07/1967, son of Elio Rauber and Lucia Martini Rauber, Rural Producer, married (partial community of assets), CPF/MF No. 429.756.111 -53, Identity Card No. 5984548, SSP/MT, resident at Sítio J.O., in Gleba Rouxinol – Comunidade Perpétuo Socorro, km 90 – Distrito da Morena, municipality of Aripua nã-MT, CEP 78325 -000; Mrs. Gesiane Paula Ronsoni, Brazilian, born on 01/21/1987, daughter of Generino Ronsoni and Lorena Contini Ronson i, Businesswoman, single, CPF/MF nº 016.462.401 - 54, Identity Card nº 13357174, SESP/MT, resident at Av. Hilda Pedrotti, nº 693 N – Neighborhood Módulo 01, municipality from Juína -MT, CEP 78320 -000; Mr. Geovane Torrente Silva, Brazilian, born on 11/26/1992, son of Adaltro Gonçalves da Silva and Maria das Graças Torrente Silva, Businessman, Single, CPF/MF nº 045.551.511 -51, identity card nº 23755865 SSP /MT, resident at Rua Josef Skura, SN, Bairro Jardim Primavera, municipality of Cotriguaçu - MT, C EP 78330 - 000; Alternate counselor: Mr. Carlos Antonio Procópio, Brazilian, born on 06/07/1976, son of José Procó pio Sobrinho and Maria Antonia de Jesus, Businessman, married (partial community of property), CPF/MF nº 550.809.281 -15, Identity Card nº 984127, SSP/MT, resident at Av. Padre Ezequiel Ramin, nº 52 – Bairro Santa Rita, municipality of Castanheira -MT, CEP 783 45-000; Inauguration: The President declared the new members of the Fiscal Council elected and informed the Assembly that the inauguration depends on the approval of the names by the Central Bank of Brazil in accordance with CMN Resolution No. 4,970/202 1. Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Mandate: The members elected to compose the Fiscal Council will hold their positions until the Ordinary General Meeting of 2026, year of end of term, in accordance with statutory provisions. Declaration: Those elected to the Fiscal Council declare, under the penalties of the Law, that they are not involved in any of the crimes provided for in Law that prevent them from carrying out commercial activity, nor in the prohibitions established in articles 51 and 56 of Law 5,764/71. 5. Setting the fees of the members of the Fiscal Council. Mr. Juares Antonio Cividini presented Sicredi's Remuneration Rules for holders of statutory positions to the Assembly. He also presented a summary of the guidelines, which consists of determining the value of fees and other benefits according to the position and size of the Cooperative. Then, the President passed the work of the table to an associate appointed by the assembly as President Ad Hoc, in order to conduct deliberation on the matter, with Mr. being appointed as Ad Hoc President. Claudioney Je sus Bressan . After presenting the proposal for payment of attendance slips and fees to the members of the Fiscal Council, the delegates decided, unanimously or by majority, on the following proposal: Fees and attendance slips for members of the Fiscal Council – To the effective members of the Fiscal Council will be paid monthly fees in the amount of R$3,290.98 (three thousand two hundred and ninety reais and ninety-eight cents). Substitute members called to participate in a Fiscal Council meeting will be paid attendance tickets in the amount of R$3,290.98 (three thousand, two hundred and ninety reais and ninety-eight cents). Classification of information: Internal Use Classification of information: Internal Use Adjustment of fees and attendance cards – The value of the Fiscal Council's fees will be adjusted annually in the month of June due to the variation in the National Consumer Price Index – INPC accumulated over the last 12 (twelve) months. Duration of payment – ​​The funds approved here will be applied immediately to the members of the Fiscal Council with a current mandate and to the new elected members, upon taking office, subject to payroll deadlines and routines. 6. Ratification of the Senior Management Position Succession Policy. The President spoke about the Succession Policy of Senior Management Positions, approved at the General Assembly of the Cooperative in 2018 and explained that, in compliance with CMN Resolution No. 4,878/2020, the document must be reviewed every five years. He commented that there was no change in his devices. Once the clarifications were made, the proposal to ratify the Senior Management Position Succession Policy was put to a vote and approved by the majority of participating delegates. 7. Other topics of interest to the board Social. There wasn't. Just it. VII. DECLARATION AND CERTIFICATION OF PRESENT: The President and Secretary declare that the General Assembly met all legal requirements for its holding. Finally, they certify that the following delegates were present at the General Assembly: Gilmar Aparecido Da Silva, Romualdo Jose Da Silva, Ferdinando Guilherme Repohl, Wesley Dos Anjos Borges, Aldecy Vargens Rios, Rodrigo Aparecido Servino, Geovane Tor rente Silva, Erpidio Tamankievies, Laerson Guiomar Meier, Marcio Fabiano De Andrade, Anderson Luiz Da Silva Vilella, Nataniel Tomasini, Luciano Silva Dos Santos, Claudioney Jesus Bressa n, Marcelino Contini, Information classification: Internal use Information classification: Internal use Lourismar Martins Araujo, Vladimir Perim, Sebasti ao Barbosa Lobato, Dosival Ferreira, Edilamar Burille Da Silva, Cleiton Riva Lauro, Beatriz Da Silva Campos Mattos, Elaine Janicleia Silva Tondin, Andressa Francisca De Oliveira Korb, S ueli De Araujo Cupaioli, Jaqueline Schirmer Antunes Coelho, Fabiano Fel ber, Claudiomiro Luiz De Lima, Vandriele Maria Kravec Silva, Auri Jorge Stefeni, Jean Paulo Agostini, Jeferson Paz, Walldon Mantelli, Jorge Kunz, Aline Fasbinder Cardoso, Benedita Locatelli Liberato, Joel Junior Candioto, Carlos Roberto Ferreira Martins, Rosilda Armini Da Silva, Tatiana Martinello, Lauri Mezzalira, Vanderlei Garcia, Salete Oleas Bialeski Ghelere, Aiesa Cristina Eidt, Gabriela Lotti, Daiana Santos Cruz, Gilmar Costa Da Silva, Eleandro Cesar Picinini, Felipe Da Silva Domingues, Evelin Krieger Ewald, Heloisa Bastos De Oliveira, Ronaldo Fernandes Da Silva, Clezimar De Souza Chaves, Davi Sales Maia, Sidnei Honorio De Oliveira, Jonas Gomes Dos Santos, Jair Ferreira Matoso, Maic on Adriano Alba, Orvania Castro Da Cunha, Paulo Roberto Mascente De Oliveira, Fatima Aparecida Da Silva Souza, Higo Rabelo Leite, Levi Costa Ferreira, Tiago Arthur Goncalves Walter, Elizete Cardoso Da Silveira, Geneci Barbosa Silva. VIII. SIGNATURES IN THE MINUTE BOOK: President, Mr. Juares Antonio Cividini Secretary, Mr. Luiz Carlos Padovani Designated committee: Mrs. Messrs. Wesley Dos Anjos Borges, Cleiton Riva Lauro, Fabiano Felber, Ivan Alves Pereira, Marcio Henrique Da Silva Santander Mezzomo. IX. CLOSURE: WE DECLARE FOR THE DUE PURPOSES THAT THESE MINUTES IS A FAITHFUL AND AUTHENTIC COPY OF THE ONE WRITTEN IN THE BOOK OF MINUTES OF THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE UNIVALES CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE – SICREDI UNIVALES MT/RO. Juína -MT, April 25, 2023 . Juares Antonio Cividin i Luiz Carlos Padovani President Secretary Information classification: Internal use Information classification: Internal use