Classification of information: Internal Use BELONGING REGULATION CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This Regulation governs the procedures that govern the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management and development process of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - System of Cooperative Credit, hereinafter referred to simply as “cooperatives” or “cooperative”. Single paragraph. In addition to the provisions in the caput, the Program also The objective is to equip cooperatives in order to increase the participation of members in matters related to their management and development, through centers. Art. 2 The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 3 The provisions contained in these Regulations regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after adjustment of the cooperative's bylaws, covering this form of participation, in accordance with current regulations, and apply to cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 1 It is optional for cooperatives that serve specific segments and/or categories to adopt this form of member participation as long as they have the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 2 For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will be called nucleus coordinator in this Regulation. CHAPTER II CORE MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES Art. 4 A meeting is considered to be a meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members to discuss matters related to the management and development of the cooperative, such as: I - operations and services; II - strategic planning; III - target plan; IV – semi-annual reporting; Information classification: Internal Use V - promotion of culture cooperative; VI - governance and leadership training; VII - cooperative development programs in society; VIII - matters of specific interest to the membership, nucleus or those defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Single paragraph. The meetings will be organized and held with the prior knowledge of the Board of Directors. Art. 5 A core assembly is considered to be an event held with members with the aim of deliberating on: I - the election and dismissal of the core coordinator, effective and substitutes; II - the matters of the general assembly of the cooperative, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 1 The call for core assemblies, containing the date, time, place and/or form of their holding and matters to be resolved, will be made through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably at least 10 days in advance. (ten) days. § 2 The call will, as a rule, be made by the President of the Board of Directors. § 3 In the event that the call for the general meeting is carried out by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full employment of their social rights, core assemblies must automatically be called. § 4 If the provisions of the previous paragraph occur, at least 3 (three) advisors or associates must sign the notice. § 5 The nucleus may call a nucleus assembly to dismiss or elect its nucleus coordinator. § 6 The core assembly, regardless of its form, will be considered valid when, at the end, it is attended by at least 10 (ten) members per core. § 7 If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per group, there must be a new call in accordance with § 1 of this article. If not If there is enough time to call it, the core vote will not be considered at the general meeting. § 8 The participation of members in the core assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors, who may choose between in-person, semi-in-person or digital forms, without prejudice to the recording of their manifestations in the voting exercise. Classification of information: Internal Use §9º The subjects of the core assemblies will be considered approved by a majority of those present. §10. In the event of a tie in the core vote, the core coordinator will vote to break the tie. §11. In the event of absence of effective core coordinators and substitute(s), it will be considered not approved. §12. In the event of a tie in the voting for candidates for the Board of Directors or Fiscal Council, if the effective core coordinators and alternate(s) are absent, the candidate whose group of candidates presents the longest average time of association with the organization will be considered the winner. cooperative. §13. When holding core assemblies in a blended or digital format, a channel for interaction with the cooperative will be made available. Art. 6 In addition to the specificities described in articles 4 and 5, core meetings and core assemblies are recognized spaces for qualified participation by members with questions, demonstrations and strategic contributions, as well as learning, formation of cooperative identity and belonging. Single paragraph. The actions structured throughout the year will be considered an integral part of the annual assembly movement when attendance is duly recorded in the Pertencer Program tool, and its activities and results are included in the minutes for the respective treatment. CHAPTER III MEMBERS Art. 7 The rights of members, in addition to those provided for in the cooperative's Bylaws: I - vote and be voted for nucleus coordinator; II - propose to the coordinator of core any issues of interest to the cooperative to be explained at meetings; III - Discuss and vote on the matters covered by the core assembly. Art. 8 The attitudes expected of members are: I - knowing and practicing cooperativism; II - nominate new members; III - submit suggestions to the nucleus for consideration to improve operations, services, customer service, facilities, among others; IV - make yourself available as a candidate for nucleus coordinator. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER IV OF CORE Art. 9º The group of members of the cooperative is considered a nucleus, taking into account the following premises: I - the cooperative will define the number of members per nucleus, observing the limit of nuclei established in the Statute Social, through registration in the minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. The number of members per nucleus cannot be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II - after this definition, the number of members grouped in groups cannot exceed a variation of 50% (fifty percent) more or less; III - the cooperative must have at least 11 (eleven) member groups, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - to guarantee the right to vote for members of newly opened branches or those that have not reached the number defined in item I of this article by the Board of Directors, it will be up to this is the definition of the form of participation of these members in the nuclei; V - each nucleus will have an effective nucleus coordinator and at least 1 (one) substitute at the time of election, and the number of substitutes may be fixed by the Board of Directors; VI - the grouping into nuclei must observe the best service for the member, respecting the nucleation criteria defined by the Administration Council; VII - the cooperative will define the number of centers grouped into the same core assembly, preferably not exceeding 5 (five), in the case of in-person assemblies. § 1 When the number of core members exceeds the variation of 50% (fifty percent) of members, more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in section I of this article. § 2 When the number of centers in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote its amendment. § 3º When If the Board of Directors decides to reduce the number of cooperative centers, the coordinators of the extinct nucleus will automatically lose their mandate. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER V THE CORE COORDINATOR Art. 10. The nucleus coordinator is the individual member elected at a nucleus assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and representing the members at assemblies general, when the coop It is erative to adopt this modality. Art. 11. To apply and carry out the activities of nucleus coordinator, the applicant must: I - be certified in the Crescer Program; II - make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a political-partisan position or function upon election, or during the term of office, in compliance with the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws; IV - not respond, due to pending issues relating to a protest titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, in addition to not having a negative record in any database, external or within the cooperative itself, as well as having promoted or being promoting, as part of or attorney, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi; V - not be an employee of the cooperative or have been dismissed from the cooperative for fair reasons cause; and VI - not be a former advisor or director who is subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of his term of office or who, for the same reasons, has been removed or resigned from the position for which he was held elected. Art. 12. The duties of the core coordinator will be considered: I – when invited by the Board of Directors, participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the social projects of the c operative; II - participate in meetings of core coordinators, core meetings and core assembly; III - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - participate, when invited by the President or Board Member, in events of interest to the cooperative; and V - participate in the training of coordinators in the cooperative, disseminating cooperativism. Single paragraph. They cannot be provided by the co operative member data for the nucleus coordinator, due to the confidentiality of information. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 13. In addition to the matters set out in the sections of art. 4 of these Regulations, the following will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of core coordinators: I - preparation of core assemblies that precede the general assemblies; II - issues related to the development of the cooperative; III - analysis of the economic and financial situation of the cooperative; IV - others of interest to the administration of the cooperative. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTION PROCESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 14. The election of nucleus coordinators will take place at a nucleus assembly in good time before the general meeting of the cooperative, and the candidate must register, on a specific form provided by the cooperative, on the deadline established when convening the core assembly. Single paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with requirements required for the role and communicate the candidate. Art. 15. The term of office of core coordinators will comply with the term set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 16. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 17. Nucleus coordinators will be considered elected: I - the member with the most votes and the second most voted by the nucleus will respectively be considered effective coordinator and alternate coordinator, and so on as there is a greater number of substitutes; II - the members with the highest number of votes, when presented as candidates jointly (effective and alternate(s)), the order of substitute(s) indicated; III - the members presented as the only candidate acts (effective and substitute(s)), acclaimed by the Core Assembly. § 1 In any of the hypotheses in items I and II of this article, the order of replacement must be recorded in the election minutes. Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 In the event of a tie in voting, the member who will perform the functions of effective core coordinator will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, the same rule being valid for substitutes. Art. 18. The investiture of nucleus coordinators will occur automatically after the announcement of the election results. Art. 19. In the event of a vacancy in the effective core coordinator, the first substitute will assume the role. If there are no substitutes To take over, the core members will elect new core coordinators in accordance with these Regulations, effective and alternate(s), to fulfill the remainder of the term. § 1 The following are the hypotheses of vacancy for core coordinators: I - loss of membership status; II - failure to attend, without justification, the general assembly of the cooperative, at the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, resignation and dismissal; IV - health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in his or her duties; V - as a party or attorney-in-fact, promote legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; VI - no longer meets the conditions for the role of nucleus coordinator, in accordance with these Regulations; VII - be elected member of the Board of Directors or Supervisory Board of the cooperative, or even director; VIII - exercise a vote at the general assembly that differs from that defined by the nucleus; IX - hold a position on corporate bodies in a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; X - transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; and XI - become an employee of another financial institution. § 2 In the event that the nucleus coordinator is nominated as a candidate for a political-party position, he must submit a request for resignation within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention at which the nomination is confirmed or 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after assuming one of the positions mentioned above, under penalty of the position being vacated. For the purposes of this Regulation, party political position is understood to be the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws. § 3º The dismissal of the nucleus coordinator will occur by deliberation of the members in a nucleus assembly. The other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. CHAPTER VII REPRESENTATIVENESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 20. The effective nucleus coordinators will be called upon to represent the members at the general assemblies of the cooperative and, if they are unable to attend, their substitutes. § 1 Whenever the effective nucleus coordinator is present at the general assembly, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. § 2 As soon as you are aware If it is impossible to attend the general meeting or need to be absent when it has already started, the effective nucleus coordinator must communicate the fact to his deputy and also to the cooperative, for his replacement. § 3º If it is impossible for the nucleus coordinator, effective and alternate(s), to participate in the general assembly, the President of the assembly will request the secretary or another associate, who will be acting as representative for the act, to present the vote, reading the result of the vote of the respective core, in order to be computed at the general assembly, restrictively to those matters that were previously considered at the Core Assembly. § 4 According to the system provided for in § 4 of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the nucleus coordinator's vote will be linked to the decisions of the nucleus he represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the nucleus assembly. § 5º The absence of the coordinator in the general assembly will be informed by the cooperative to the respective nucleus at the first nucleus assembly that takes place. CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 21. The nucleus coordinator will not receive any type of financial compensation, except for the reimbursement of his expenses for carrying out the function, which must be decided by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 22. Core meetings and assemblies held by the cooperative must be registered in advance in the P ertencer Program management tool. Art. 23. The cooperative starting its activity or recently integrated into the System will join this Program after evaluation and recommendation from the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. This Belonging Regulation was approved at the General Assembly held on 04/12/2022.