COOPERATIVE OF CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PANTANAL OF MATO GROSSO DO SUL – SICREDI PANTANAL MS NIRE Nº: 54.4.0000165 -3 | CNPJ No.: 26.408.187/0001 -50 CALL NOTICE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY (Digital Modality) The President of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Pantanal do Mato Grosso do Sul - Sicred i Pantanal MS, in the use of the powers assigned to him confers article 14 of the Bylaws, convenes the nucleus delegates, who on this date there are 24 (twenty-four), to meet in the ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 15, 2021, at 7 (seven) hours, on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in a second call, at 8 (eight) hours, with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 9 (nine) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted to from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located Avenida Mário Corrêa, no. 1250, Bairr o San Raphael, Maracaju/MS, and, simultaneously, via videoconference, through the Microsoft Teams Platform, according to instructions available in the comments field. At the meeting, the following matters of the ORDINARY OF THE DAY I will be discussed and resolved - Accounting for the year ended December 31, 2020, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the audit independent, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. d) opinion from the Independent Audit; e) Opinion of the fiscal council; II - Allocation of leftovers from the 2020 financial year. III – Internal Regulations a) Corporate Governance; b) Update of the Compliance Policy; c) Update of the Singular Cooperative’s Internal Audit Standard; IV – Capture of resources from municipalities, their bodies or entities and companies controlled by them. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Marac aju/MS, March 1, 2021 . Emerso n Luis Perosa President OBSERVATIONS: 1. The documents and information on the matters listed on the meeting's agenda are available at the Cooperative's branches, on the Cooperative's website: www.sic redi.co m.br/pantana lms. 2. The Assembly will be carried out in digital format, taking into account the recommendation of the Ministry of Health and other competent authorities to avoid crowds, guaranteeing the safety and health of our associates and collaborators. 3. Instructions for participation and voting in the digital assembly will be made available to Delegates/Associates via the electronic address www.sicredi.com.br/pant analms. The digital environment in which the digital assembly will be held may be accessed through a browser or computer application or smartphone compatible with Windows, IOS and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action through audio, video and chat, in real time. To access, simply click on the link, available at the electronic address mentioned above, and fill in your identification, opportunity and in which you will be admitted to the his entry into the Assembly. 4. The General Assembly will be fully recorded, in compliance with the provisions of Annex V I to Normative Instruction 81/2020 of the Department of Business Registration and Integration.