BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF LAWYERS AND SERVANTS OF THE JUDICIAL POWER IN THE STATE OF RIO GRANDE D0 SUL — SICREDI COOABCRED RS CNPJ N° 19.962.468I0001-95 NIRE N° 4340010208-6 CHAPTER I OF NOMINATION, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION , AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Duration Period Art. 1° The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Lawyers and Servants of the Judiciary in State of Rio Grande do Sul — Sicredi COOABCred RS, established at the general meeting of March 13, 2013, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, having: I - Headquarters, administration and legal forum at Avenida Borges de Medeiros, n° 2105, rooms 605,606 and 607, Praia de Belas neighborhood, CEP: 90110-150, in this State of Rio Grande do Sul; ll - Area of ​​action, always endorsed by the Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, limited to municipalities in the State of Rio Grande do Sul; Ill - Indefinite duration. Section ll Integration with Sicredi Art. 2° The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the South and Southeast — Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates with this and the other affiliates , Sicredi — Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1° 0 Cooperative Credit System — Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederagao Sicredi), Sicredi Participagoes S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundagao Sicredi) and the Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2° The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from the Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and expression of the respective Central in the conclave, of which it must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 3° The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are subject to compliance, in particular: I - the systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of programs Grow and Belong, according to regulations own; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally defined by the System; Ill - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 4° Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in the Internal Regulations of Sicredi (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for in law. § 5° The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and /or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 6° Affiliation to the Central automatically amounts to solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred through movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; Ill - to loans taken out by Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of Cooperative members or all other affiliates. § 7° Integration into Sicredi implies, also, subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 8° The liability provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 9° Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and maintain the availability of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 10. Co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11. Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government agencies and authorities. § 12. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER L0 ll D0 CORPORATE OBJECT Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; ll - provide its associates, including through agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, access to insurance products, pension plans, consortia, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official or transferred resources by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; Ill - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that aim to practice cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as make use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining of scale. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, ADMISSION CONDITIONS, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Admission Conditions Art. 5 May Members of the Cooperative are people who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I — natural persons with definitive registration with the OAB/RS and employees of the judiciary in the state of Rio Grande do Sul; II - legal entities, constituted in the form of a law firm, with definitive registration with the OAB/RS; III — representative entity of an institutional or assistance nature for the class of lawyers and civil servants judicial power in the state of Rio Grande do Sul; IV - employees of the Cooperative itself, employees of the legal entities associated with it or those in whose capital it participates, as well as individuals providing services, on a non-casual basis, to the Cooperative and the aforementioned legal entities; V - retirees who, when active, met the statutory criteria for association; VI - parents, spouse or partner, living partner, child, legal dependent of an associate or pensioner of a deceased member; VII - legal entities, established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, whose purpose is the same or related economic activities as associated individuals, as well as those without profit purposes, in compliance with the provisions of the legislation in force. VIII - others that the legislation allows. § 1° The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2° For acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of minimum shares provided for in § 2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3° They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in Iegislagéoz I — anyone who may compete with the Cooperative; II — anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or that conflict with them; III — anyone who has lost employment with the Cooperative for just cause; IV — anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V — anyone who causes damage of any nature to the Cooperativa or Sicredi; VI — anyone who stops operating with or through the Cooperative for more than 180 days; VII — whoever carries out the movement of values incompatible with its financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII — anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX — anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, under the terms of the legislation in force; X — anyone who violates contractual obligations of products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI — anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. Section ll Rights Art. 6 Members' rights: I - participate in meetings and general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are established in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors statutory and internal regulatory changes, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity found in the management of the Company or regulatory infraction - statute committed by an associate; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information about the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII - resign from the Cooperative when it suits him. Section Ill Duties Art. 7th Seo duties of members: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and the other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the Cooperative and in the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VIII - keep your registration information updated. Single paragraph. A Dismissal, elimination or exclusion of the member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses verified in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general meeting, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. . § 1° The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required to do so, except in the cases set out in §§ 2nd and 3rd following. § 2 Members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising the use of liquidity lines. § 3° In an unlimited manner, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause damage material or moral the Cooperative. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9° The associate's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection ll Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - violation of current legislation or the Statute, when not applicable to its exclusion; ll - if the member fails to comply punctually with obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; Ill - infringement of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - carrying out acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as an administrative or tax advisor. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 2° The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in their opinion, disqualify the infraction or the act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3° The Cooperative The deletion will be communicated to the member with an indication of the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4° The eliminated member may file an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the communication of the elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect, the first general meeting to be held. § 5° When any advisor, including those with executive functions, incurs the provisions of item II of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from his duties while the investigation continues, informing him of the verifications carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days it can present its reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6° In the case of § 5°, the Council of The Administration may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, warn the offender or call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or a general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as per the case. § 7° The decision to eliminate the member, except as hypothesized in § 6° of this article, may be delegated to Councilors with executive functions. Subsection Ill Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - Dissolution of the legal entity; ll - Death of the individual; Ill - Loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - Failure to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5°, § 3°, of this Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions of admission subsequent to membership will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2° Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and varies according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 10,000.00 (ten thousand Reais), and must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2° Upon joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. § 3° The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. § 4° The general assembly, upon proposal of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, it may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new shares of capital, including defining the form, value and the frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5° In capital payments, except as described in § 2° of this article, subscription and monthly payment will be admitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Administration, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. § 6° The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic record, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7° The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as a guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 9 The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet of the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative , respecting as special parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 10. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, the counting from the date of first release until the day they are made available to the interested party, they will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 11. The Share Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 9 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; ll - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and Ill - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 12. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 60 (sixty) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 15 (fifteen) years or retires due to disability, may, exceptionally, submit to the Council of Administration request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining its membership status, with the minimum shareholdings established in § 2 of this article. § 13. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw up to 60% of their share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, the member may redeem up to 40% of the value of the share capital, maintaining their membership status, with the minimum membership fees established in § 2 of this article. § 14. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit to the Board of Directors a request for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. § 15. If the Cooperative has, on December 31 of the previous year, reserves constituted that correspond to at least 100% (one hundred per cent) of the capital requirements established by the Central Bank of Brazil on this same base date, excluding the values ​​of contributions from the Guarantee Funds, of any modality, the Board of Directors may, exceptionally, authorize partial redemption in fortuitous cases or force majeure, as well as making the criteria for partial withdrawal established in §§ 12, 13 and 14 above more flexible, maintaining the membership status with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 16. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of their share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will continue until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his dismissal from membership took place. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from some obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the country's legal system. § 18. The return referred to in §§ 12, 13, 14 and 15, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be given at the discretion of the collegiate body, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by the legislation in force, with payment in installments being also permitted by the Cooperative. § 19. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 20. If the member does not comply punctually the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the Cooperative may be offset, at the discretion of the Cooperative, with its respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital shares, maintaining its status as an associate with the minimum quota shares established in § 2 of this article. CHAPTER V GENERAL MEETING: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. A The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will make any and all decisions of interest to the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. Art. 14. General meetings (ordinary and/or extraordinary) will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice published in a newspaper and posted in appropriate places on the premises. commonly attended by members, in addition to communication through physical circulars or electronically. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, following a request not responded to within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights , in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the notice. § 2° The notice will contain: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly |" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); ll - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the address of the place where it will be held, which, unless there is a justified reason, will be the registered office; Ill - the agenda of the work, with the necessary specifications and, in the case of a Statute reform, an indication of the matter; IV - the number of existing members on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; V - location, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General meetings may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 The General Assemblies referred to in the caput may be held in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, as long as this condition is included in the call notice. § 5° Assemblies that are held remotely must guarantee the effective participation of members. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of members, on first call; ll - half plus 1 (one) of the number of members on second call; Ill - 10 (ten) members, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. If it is not possible to hold the general meeting due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Art. 17. The general assemblies will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1° In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, he will assume the presidency the Vice-President of the assembly, who will invite an administration advisor to act as secretary for the work. § 2° When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be chaired and served as a secretariat by members chosen on the occasion, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 18. The member will not be able to vote on decisions on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, but he will not be deprived of taking participate in the respective debates. Art. 19. Deliberations at general assemblies, held in open voting unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except for matters falling within the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which votes of 2/ 3 (two thirds) of the members present. Paragraph (paragraph. Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as a committee of 5 (five) associates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 20. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum, both in the opening and in the (3) restart(s) of the works, and the order of the date of the notice, everything duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section ll Ordinary General Assembly Art. 21. The ordinary general assembly must be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the order of the day: I - rendering of accounts of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. ll - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; Ill - election the components of the management and fiscal councils; IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance certificates and bonuses of the members of the Councils; V - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those with exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. L'mico paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in item IV of this article must follow the Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section Ill Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 22. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; ll - fusion, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of Liquidator(s); V - Liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 23. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, and will be conducted by an Electoral Commission set up specifically for this purpose, each request, by deliberation of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same body. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 24. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 14 (fourteen) advisors, including a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for candidacy and exercise of the position, without prejudice to meeting the additional requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the Cooperative's management or supervisory boards; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, straight or collateral, with members of the Administrative and Fiscal Councils; III - not being, simultaneously, employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - not have held or are holding a political-party position or function in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the activities inherent; VI - failure to carry out 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or at another Sicredi entity in the last 2 (two) financial years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have a negative record in any databases; VIII - not having, through intent or guilt, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX - have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated, in the immediately previous exercise, or participated in the courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of their mandate, within a period of 1 (one) year after taking office ; XI - have availability of time for the full compliance with statutory and iegal incumbers, being prohibited the accumulation with another position or function (elective or neo), which requires dedicated incompatible with the responsibility in the Cooperative; XII - have higher-level training; XIII — to apply for the position of Administrative Councilor, have previously held the position of Fiscal Councilor in the last 6 (six) years; XIV - not negatively expose, or denigrate, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, by reason of their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any trademarks owned by the entities that are part of Sicredi; XV - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations; XVI - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which they are the majority shareholder, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months; XVII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; § 1 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been dismissed or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 2° 0 President and the Vice-President of the Board of Directors will also exercise executive functions, the duties of which are defined in this Statute, and the Board of Directors is also authorized to assign new duties to them, in addition to those provided for, as well as other advisors for the performance of specific roles in the Cooperative, except duties reserved for the President and Vice-President. § 3° The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, subject to that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher integer must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until the inauguration of their successors, allowing them, since the election, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded . § 4° In the case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this one, for a advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 5 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate the successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) to said position(s), whether or not the designated person(s) is confirmed, and the The elected person(s) will serve (510) the remaining period of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining time of management. § 6 The following constitute, among others, the chances of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, the 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 4 (four) alternate meetings, during each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with the legislation in force; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity member of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under the regulations in force, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 7 In the event that a counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political-partisan position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 8 For the purposes of this Statute, a political-partisan position is understood as: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; ll - Member of a party executive — people who, affiliated with a given party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; Ill - Appointed, designated or delegated position — those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 25. The Board of Directors it is governed by the following rules: I - it is refined, on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, at the call of its President, the majority of the Board itself, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; ll - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; Ill - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1 Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2° No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest or that concern your relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 26. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by him; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Councilors with Executive Functions of the Cooperative in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended for financing the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; V - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with the legislation in force; VI - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; VII - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; VIII - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the scope of the Company, including those sent to them by the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of applicable penalties; IX - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; X - decide on the call for a general meeting; XI - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, in compliance with the Cooperative's social purposes and in compliance with current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XII - authorize the change of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of other dependencies or branches of the Cooperative, within or outside the headquarters municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XIII - comply with and enforce this Statute, the legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XIV - express an opinion on the administration report and financial statements; XV - choose and dismiss external auditors, systemic guidelines observed; XVI - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Para. The President and Vice-President of the Board of Directors, jointly, without prejudice to other duties arising from the law and these Bylaws, are responsible, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations; I - operationally manage the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; ll - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in processes legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic-financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of this Statute; Ill - appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in a skillful mandate instrument, duties, responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Mandate instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for fixed term, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity. IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to completing and executing the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, observing the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current assets of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines for audit and internal controls, aiming at the safety and respect for yegislagao and internal and official normatives; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable property, contribution or aid, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities pertaining to the Cooperative’s ordinary administration. XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members; Art. 28. The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or out of court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of item IX of art. 29, obligatorily: I - by the President and Vice-President of the Board of Directors together; II - by the President or Vice-President of the Board of Directors together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with powers specific. Paragraph (paragraph. Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of the President or Vice-President of the Board of Directors or, even, of 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal and state public bodies and municipal entities, autarchies and mixed-capital companies; II - in the granting of documents for the representation of the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of license of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that implies the lack of plurality of representatives (president or vice-president) and vacancy not covered. Art. 29. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - supervising the general administration and activities of the Cooperative, including compliance with applicable rules and guiding and evaluating the professionals hired; II - ensure implementation the Cooperative's strategic, financial and investment planning, as well as monitoring its execution; Ill - Lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; IV - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; V - submit regulatory proposals to the Board of Directors internal, observing systemic guidelines; VI - Provide the Board of Directors with an assessment of the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budgetary proposals, monitoring their execution; VII - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to others documents and information that is required; VIII - select executives, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the powers provided for in item IX of art. 27; IX - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters, systemic rules and regulations before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; X - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever they indicate; XI - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XII - systematically evaluate the service provided to the membership on the Cooperative's premises, aiming to guarantee the satisfaction and quality of the services provided to members; XIII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIV - indicate one secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. XV - Formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. Art. 30. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his absences, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in which the Cooperative participates. Single paragraph. To the Vice- President of the Council is responsible, among other duties: I - responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; ll - respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal standards and legislation; Ill - formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before the bodies regulators and inspectors. Art. 31. The Board Members, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Directors who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, through reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause damage to the Company, will be held directly liable with their own assets for the compensation for damages; § 2° The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Administrative Councilors whose actions or omissions, in the form of the previous paragraph, have as a consequence any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 32. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and an equal number of substitutes, all associated with individuals, elected by the general assembly, observing, regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provided for in art. 24, items I to XVII, of this Statute. § 1° The election of the members of the Fiscal Council requires complete slate(s), independent(s) and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, with an indication of the replacement order, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 1 of art. 24 of this Statute. § 2° The term of office will be 3 (three) years, with renewal of at least 2 (two) members at each election, 1 (one) being effective and 1 (one) alternate. § 3° The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 33. The Fiscal Council refines itself, on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other occurrences Substantial meetings will be recorded in the minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1° At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3° If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4° Supervisory Board meetings may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 34. In the case of temporary absence, or in the event of vacancy, the effective councilors will be replaced by alternates, following the order established in the election minutes. § 1 In the event of 4 (four) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call a general meeting to fill them appropriately, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2° They apply to the Council Tax the vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 24, § 6, of this Statute, it is up to the Board itself to assess the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political-partisan position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed. , under penalty of vacancy of the position. Art. 35. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and systemic regulations, the Supervisory Board is responsible for: I - exercising assiduous supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and the actions of administrators; ll - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents under custody; Ill - evaluate the loan policy and monitor the its concession; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the financial year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary to perform its functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the administration of the Cooperative, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, regarding strategic-corporate matters of interest to all the individual cooperatives and their central members of Sicredi; Vll - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, warning about any irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general and Central assembly; Vlll - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the Cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by decision of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the management of the Cooperative, whose practice results from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Council of Administration and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, a timely report to the general assembly. § 2° The Cooperative, through its social bodies, jointly or individually, as already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the liability of directors for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. _ I CHAPTER IX SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 36. The fiscal year coincides with the calendar year. Art. 37. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the exercise, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 38. The surplus determined at the end of each financial year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 50% (fifty percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative ; ll - 05% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families and employees of the Cooperative; |||-10.5%(ten point five per cent), at least, to fulfill a charge due to resources received from Sicredi Fundos Garantidores — SFG, with a deadline until the end of the 2027 financial year. IV - The remaining balance will be made available to the general meeting, for purposes it deems appropriate , in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1° Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the required/stipulated asset structure, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares of the members' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2° Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before the determination of mandatory allocations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 39. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, in accordance with the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of the losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 40. Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among members. CHAPTER _TU LO are willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or its minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - by stopping their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 42. The Company's settlement will comply with legal and regulatory standards. CHAPTER ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with the current legislation. CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 44. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 45. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from its shipment. Art. 46. The Cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 47. Cases omissions will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after consulting, when necessary, the social bodies. Porto Alegre, April 26, 2021. Jorge Fernando Estevﬁo Maciel Marcia Isabel Heinen President Vice-President