A'! V‘; I 4 Sicredi BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT COOPERATIVA SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA, WITH HEADQUARTERS AT RUA SALDANHA MARINHO, N° 34, BAIRRO MAURICIO DE NASSAU, CARUARU/PE. APPROVED AT THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CONSTITUTION HELD ON 05/12/1993, MODIFIED AT EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS ON 06/25/2009, 09/12/2009, 07/02/2010, 07/02/2011, 08/17/2012 , 01/07/2013, 03/28/2014, 02/25/2015, 04/27/2016, 08/31/2018, 05/19/2020 AND 03/12/2021. Title I NATURE, NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AGILE AREA, DURATION AND SOCIAL EXERCISE. Art. 1 - The Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Credit Cooperative is governed by the provisions of laws numbers 4,595/64, 5,764/71 and Complementary Law No. 130/09, in the regulations issued by the National Monetary Council, the Central Bank and this Statute, having: a) Headquarters and legal jurisdiction in the city of Caruaru, State of Pernambuco; b) Area of ​​action in the main municipality of Caruaru and in the cities of Arcoverde, Afogados da Ingazeira, Agrestina, Altinho, Buique, Brejo da Madre de Deus, Belo Jardim, Calfs, Bonito, Cachoeirinha, Camocim de Sao Félix, Cupira, Custédia, Carpina, Catende, Caetés, Gravaté, Garanhuns, Joao Alfredo, Jupi, Limoeiro, Lajedo, Nazaré da Mata, Pesqueira , Pedra, Passira, Palmares, Riacho das Almas, Sanharo, Serra Talhada, Sertania, Surubim, Santa Cruz do Capibaribe, S50 Caetano, S50 Joaquim do Monte, Triunfo, Tacaimbé, Taquaritinga do Norte, Toritama and Vertentes. c) Indefinite duration and fiscal year of 12 (twelve) months, starting on January 1st and ending on December 31st of each year. Article 2 - The Company, by joining the Central Credit Cooperative of the North/Northeast - Central Sicredi North/Nordeste, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi — Cooperative Credit System , also governed by its regulations. § 1° 0 Cooperative Credit System — Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederagao Sicredi), Sicredi Participagoes S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational Development and Sicredi Centra Pernambucana Hua Salrlmnlm Mal Hlllu 3a Same lVmunuu Llc Na;-sou ';5(}'Z— Ml) — Ctxrrmrtl. Pt Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi I Cultural of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundagao Sicredi) and Sicredi Guarantor Fund (SFG). § 2° The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and expression of the respective Central in the conclave and core assemblies with members, of which it must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 3° The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are subject to compliance, in particular: I - systemic norms on the use of brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 4 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to 111 of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 5° The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and /or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 6° A membership of the Central automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred through movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative’s members or all other affiliates. § 7° Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6° of this article, Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rua Saltlmnlm Mai mliu, Bu Baum lVldUIiLlU dc Na;-mt: 5502,/no, cmwu, Pt 2 Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi I when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated with others central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 8° The liability provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 90 The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine books and accounting records and others papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 10. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11. The Sicredi North/Northeast Central, as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government agencies and authorities. § 12. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. Title II in the OBJECT AND SOCIAL PURPOSE Art. 3 - The purpose of the cooperative will be cooperative education, financial assistance and the provision of services to its members, through mutual assistance, systematic savings and the appropriate use of credit, within the rules that govern active, passive, accessory and special operations. It will also seek, by all means, to encourage the expansion of Economy and Mutual Credit cooperativism, and: Sicredi Centra Pernambucana Hua Saltlmnlm Mal mliu 3rd Same lVmunuu Llc Nassau 5502,/no , cmwu, Pt 3 Classification of information Internal Use I q: Sicredi I — provide, through mutuality, financial assistance to members in their specific activities, with the purpose of promoting the production and productivity of members ; II — promote the educational training of its members, with a view to fostering cooperativism, through mutual aid, systematic economy and the appropriate use of credit, as well as the dissemination of information techniques aimed at improving production and quality of life; III — carry out, in accordance with current regulations, the following operations, among others: raising resources, granting credits, providing services, formalizing agreements with other financial institutions, as well as investing resources in the financial market, including term deposits with or without issuing a certificate, aiming to preserve the purchasing power of the currency and make the resources profitable. Single paragraph - In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. TITLE III MEMBERSHIP Art. 4 - The number of members will be unlimited, but cannot be less than 20 (twenty) individuals. Art. 5 - The following may join the cooperative: a) natural persons in general, domiciled in the cooperative's area of ​​action, as long as they are in full civil capacity: b) persons legal entities, conceptualized by current legislation, whether profit or non-profit, that are established in the cooperative's area of ​​action, except credit cooperatives and the Union, the States, the Federal District and the Municipalities Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rim Salrlmnlm Mai mliu, Bu Baum lVldUIiLlU dc Nassau ':')(}'2— Mi) — Cnrnmrui Pt Classification of information Internal Use A V'; I 5 Sicredi as well as its dependents. respective authorities, foundations and state-owned companies Art. 6 - To To join, the candidate fills in the admission proposal provided by the cooperative. First Paragraph - Once the decisions contained in the admission proposal have been verified and after preliminary approval by the Board, the candidate will subscribe and pay shares, in accordance with Articles 17 and 18 of this statute. Second Paragraph - The proposal for admission to a cooperative member will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, at the first regular meeting held after its approval preliminary, and if approved, the member will sign the book or registration form. Third Paragraph - Once the provisions of the previous paragraph have been complied with, the member acquires all rights and assumes the obligations arising from the law and this statute. Art. 7° - N50 may join the cooperative, nor may people who carry out any activity that contradict or conflict with its objectives. Art. 8 - The member has the right to: a) take part in General Assemblies, discussing and voting the matters that are dealt with therein, with the restrictions of Article 27, second paragraph; b) propose to the General Assemblies and the Board of Directors the measures it deems appropriate to the company's interests; c) carry out scheduled operations with the cooperative, in accordance with this statute and the established rules; d) inspect at the registered office, at any time, the Registration Book or form and in the 30 (thirty) days prior to the holding of the Ordinary General Meeting, the balance sheets and statements of surplus and loss accounts for the respective semesters; Sicredi Center Pernambucana RuaSalL1mI|m Mai miiu, Bu Baum NidUIiLiU dc Na;-sou ':')(}'2— Mi) — Cuumru, Pt Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi I e) vote and be voted for social positions ; f) request his resignation at any time; Art. 9 — The member undertakes to: a) subscribe and pay in capital shares, in accordance with the provisions of this statute; b) satisfy, punctually, the commitments you contract with the cooperative; c) faithfully comply with the provisions of this Statute, respecting the deliberations regularly taken by the General Assembly or the Board of Directors; d) look after the moral and material interests of the cooperative; e) always bear in mind that cooperation is a work of common interest, which should not override individual interests; f) cover its share of the losses determined in the balance sheet, as provided for in Paragraph Three of Article 55 of this statute; Art. 10 - The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, in accordance with the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date in which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal took place are approved by the general assembly. § 1° The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2° and 3° below. § 2 Members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of their participation in the Clearing of Checks and Other Papers, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3° Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or culpable, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rua Saltlmnlm Mal mliu, Bu Baum lVldUIiLlU dc Na;-sat: 5502,/no , CtilLn‘:lLlr Pt 5 Classification of information Internal use q: Sicredi I Art. 11 - The obligations of the deceased member, contracted with the cooperative and those arising from his responsibility as a member, vis-à-vis third parties, pass to the heirs, up to the limit of the strength of the inheritance and the subscribed shares, expiring, however, after one year , on the opening day of the succession. Art. 12 — The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request; exclusion, when the dissolution of the legal entity occurs, the death of the natural person, the loss of civil capacity, if this is not supplied, and the elimination, when the member violates legal provisions or these Statutes, in particular those provided for in its article 9 (duties and obligations of the member), by act of the Board of Directors, through a term signed in the book or registration form. First Paragraph — The dismissal of the member, which cannot be denied, will only be made at his/her written request. Second Paragraph - In any case of member termination, the cooperative may, at its sole discretion criterion, promote the compensation provided for in article 368 of the Brazilian Civil Code, between the total value of the debt of the terminated member, with the cooperative and their credit arising from the respective shares. Art. 13 - In addition to legal reasons, the Board of Directors will be obliged to eliminate any member who: a) carries out any activity considered harmful to the cooperative; b) carry out acts that discredit the concept of the cooperative; c) repeatedly fail to comply obligations assumed with the cooperative or cause it harm. Art. 14 - Elimination due to legal or statutory infraction will be decided at a meeting of the Board of Directors and what caused it must be stated in a term drawn up in the Registration Book or Form and signed by the President of the Board of Directors. Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rim Sciltldlllld Mai iiiliu, Bu Bzlllllj lVldLlllLlU dc NclL;LlLl 5502,/no , CLilUL‘:lLl« Pt 7 Classification of informationoz Internal Use ‘D 7.» I 4 Sicredi First Paragraph — The authentic copy of the elimination term will be sent to the member, through a process that proves the dates of sending and receipt, within 30 (thirty) days, counting from the date of the meeting at which the elimination was decided . Second Paragraph - The eliminated member may file, within 30 (thirty) days from the date of receipt of the copy of the elimination term, an appeal with suspensive effect, to the first General Meeting that takes place. accomplish. Art. 15 — The exclusion of the member will be due to the dissolution of the legal entity, due to unfulfilled civil incapacity, due to the death of the member himself, and the terminated member cannot, for whatever reason, return to the cooperative's membership before 24 ( twenty-four) months of their exclusion; Art. 16 — The return of capital to a dismissed, eliminated or excluded member will only be made after approval by the General Assembly of the balance sheet for the year that took place the termination, which can be paid in up to 12 (twelve) monthly installments. Sole Paragraph — In the case of an excluded member, the return of the capital and the payment of interest paid may be made immediately, as long as there is no forecast of losses in the semester, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. TITLE IV SHARE CAPITAL Art. 17 - The share capital is unlimited in terms of maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, however, it cannot be less than R$ 93,000.00 (ninety and three thousand reais). First paragraph — The share capital is divided into shares of R$ 1.00 (one real) each. Sicredi Center Pernambucana Run Saltlmnlm Mal mliu, Bu Baum lVldLlllLlU dc Na;-mt: ‘:‘)(}‘2— Mi) — Cmtmrul Pt Classification of information Internal Use ‘D 7.» I 4 Sicredi Second paragraph — The member undertakes to subscribe, ordinarily, a number of shares in the amount of R$ 50.00 (fifty reais) equivalent to 50 (fifty) share shares of R$ 1.00 (one real ) each one, with 50% (fifty percent) of the above amount (R$ 25.00) being subscribed and paid in at the time of association, and the remainder (R$ 25.00) 30 days after payment of the first installment. Art. 18 — For the continuous increase of share capital, after 60 days of joining the cooperative, each member is obliged to subscribe and pay at least R$ 25.00 (twenty-five reais) monthly, for 184 (one hundred and eighty-four) months until reaching the amount of R$ 4,650.00 (four thousand, six hundred and fifty reais). Art. 19 — No member may subscribe to less than the minimum of 50 shares plus 184 (one hundred and eighty-four) installments of R$ 25.00 for the continuous increase of their capital, set out in Article 17, second paragraph and Article 18 and, not more than 1/3 (one third) of the cooperative's share capital; Art. 20 - All movement of shares will be recorded in the current accounts in the book or Registration Form and in the capital account. Art. 21 - The share is indivisible and non-transferable and cannot be negotiated or given as a guarantee to third parties. Its subscription, fulfillment or refund, will always be recorded in the book or Registration Form, using a term that will contain the signatures of the Superintendent Director of the cooperative, and the member of the cooperative. Art. 22 — The capital paid in by the member must remain in the cooperative for a period that allows the regular development of the society and compliance with the limits established by the current regulations, and any redemption requests may be examined by the Board of Directors, case by case. First Paragraph — The member may, under the terms of this article, make eventual redemptions of capital shares, upon request addressed to the Board of Directors and approved by the Board of Directors, as long as they maintain the Sicredi Center Pernambucana Run Salrlmnlm Mai mliu, 30 Baum lVldUIiLlU dc Na; -sari ':')(}'2— Mi) — Cnrnmrrii Pt Classification of informagéoz Internal Use q: Sicredi minimum number of capital shares provided for in Articles 17 and 18 of these Bylaws. Second Paragraph — In any case, the member may only redeem the balance of shares that exceed the sum of the minimum required share capital provided for in Articles 17 and 18 of these Bylaws. Third Paragraph — The redeemable value will be released in 25 installments, the first being equivalent to 50% (fifty percent), at once, and the remainder, at least, in 24 (twenty-five percent) four) equal monthly installments, starting 30 (thirty) days after the release of the first installment, and the number of installments may be reduced at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Paragraph Four — The member may only request a new redemption after 24 (twenty-four) months of receiving the last installment of the previous redemption. Paragraph Five - The minimum required shares referred to in Articles 17 and 18 of this Statute will remain part of the cooperative's share capital and are only will be redeemable in situations of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, in accordance with statutory provisions. Paragraph Six - The annual sum of redemptions requested by members, as referred to in Article 22 of these Bylaws, may not exceed 10% (ten percent) of the PLA per financial year. Seventh Paragraph - Redemptions of capital shares must be requested by the end of the financial year. Art. 23 - The heirs of the deceased partners will be entitled to the values ​​of the shares- parts of the capital and other credits existing in their name, determined at the end of the social year in which the death occurred, and may be subrogated to the social rights of the “deceased” if, in accordance with this Statute, they can and want to participate in the cooperative. Rua Saltlmnlm Mai mliu, Bu Baum lVldUIiLlU dc Nassau I Sicredi Center Pernambucana 5502,/no,cmwu+=t 1st Classification of information Internal Use ‘D 7.» I 4 Sicredi TITLE v OF OPERA<;6Es Art. 24 — A Raising resources and granting credits and guarantees must be restricted to members, except for operations carried out with other financial institutions and resources obtained from legal entities, on an occasional basis, at favorable rates or exempt from remuneration. The provision of other services of a financial and similar nature to members and non-members is permitted. First Paragraph - The cooperative may also carry out special operations with third parties, aiming to preserve the purchasing power of the currency, within the limits set by the Central Bank of Brazil; Second Paragraph - Operations will always comply with prior regulations by the Board of Directors, which will establish deadlines, interest, remuneration, payment methods and all other conditions necessary to properly meet the needs of the membership. TITLE v1 OF SOCIAL BODIES Art. 25 - The Cooperative carries out its actions through the following social bodies: I- General Assembly; II - Council of Administration III — Board of Directors; IV - Fiscal Council; V - Ombudsman. SECTION I GENERAL MEETINGS Art. 26 - The General Assembly of members is the supreme body of the cooperative, and within the limits of the laws and these Statutes, it will take any and all decisions of Sicredi Center Pernambucana Run Saltlmnlm Mal mliu, Bu Baum lVldUIlLlU dc Na ;-mt: 5502,/no , cmwu, Pt 11 Classification of information Internal Use A V'; I 5 Sicredi interest of society and its deliberations will bind everyone, even if absent or discordant. Art. 27 - The General Assembly will normally be called and chaired by the President of the Board of Directors. First Paragraph It may also be called by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, if there are serious or urgent reasons, or by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, following a request that has not been responded to, demonstrably, within a period of time. maximum of 10 (ten) days. Second Paragraph - N50 can participate member of the General Assembly who: was admitted after its call; 3) b) is in violation of any provision of this Statute, provided that it is previously notified in writing; Third Paragraph - In any of the hypotheses referred to in the previous article, the General Assemblies will be called at least 10 (ten) days in advance, and in those that hold elections for the Board of Directors, 30 (thirty) days in advance. Fourth Paragraph - General Assemblies They may be held in the first, second and third calls, on the same day as the first, with an interval of 01 (one) hour, as long as they are expressly included in the Call Notice. Art. 28 — The quorum for the General Assembly is as follows: a) 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of members able to vote, on first call. b) half plus one, of the number of members able to vote, on second call; Sicredi Centro Pernambucana RudSalL1dII|ld Marmhu, Bu Baum Mdulluu dc Nassau 55022,/no , crmmm, Pt 12 Classification of information Internal use q: Sicredi c) minimum of 10 (ten) members able to vote, in the third call. Sole Paragraph - For the purpose of verifying the quorum referred to in this article, the number of members, in each call, will be determined by the signatures entered in the Book or attendance list of the General Assemblies. Art. 29 - The Call Notice for the General Assembly must include: a) the name of the cooperative followed by the expression “Convocation of General Assembly|”, Ordinary or Extraordinary, as the case may be; b) The day and time of the meeting, in each call, as well as the place where it will be held, unless there is a justified reason, which will always be the Headquarters; c) the ordinal sequence of calls; d) the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; e) The number of existing members on the date of its publication, for the purpose of calculating the installation quorum; f) place, date and signature of the person responsible for the call. Sole paragraph - The call notice will be posted on the cooperative's premises and in places commonly frequented by cooperative members, sent to all cooperative members by means of a circular and published in a newspaper with wide circulation in the cooperative's area of ​​action. Art. 30 - Each member will have the right to one vote at the General Assembly, representation through an agent will not be permitted, except in representation by delegates chosen in the form of paragraphs four and five of Article 35. Article 31 - The election and dismissal of members of the Administrative and Fiscal Councils is the responsibility of the General Assemblies. Sole Paragraph - In the event of dismissal that may compromise the regularity of the administration or supervision of the cooperative, the General Assembly may Rua Salrlmnlm Mai uvliu, Bu Baum lVmm:Liu dc NdL;LlLl I Sicredi Center Pernambucana 5502,/nu,cmwu+=r 13 Classification of information Internal Use A V'; I 5 Sicredi appoint administrators and advisors until new ones take office, whose election will take place within a maximum period of 30 (thirty) days. Art. 32 - The work of the General Assemblies will be directed by the President of the Board of Directors. The President chose a secretary who wrote down the minutes and invited those holding social positions to participate at the table. First Paragraph - In the absence of the President, the director who is a member of the Board of Directors will assume the presidency of the General Assembly, who had invited another associate to act as secretary and prepare the minutes. Second Paragraph - When the General Assembly has not been called by the President, the work will be directed by the first signatory of the notice and secretariat by an associate appointed at the time. Art. 33 - Occupiers of social positions, as well as any other associates, will not be able to vote on decisions on matters that relate directly or indirectly to them, including accountability and of setting fees, however, they will not be deprived of taking part in the respective debates. Art. 34 - At the General Assemblies in which the balance sheet and accounts for the year are discussed, the President of the Board of Directors, immediately after reading the report of that board, the financial statements and the opinion of the Fiscal Council, will request the plenary to indicate an associate to preside over the meeting during the debates and voting on the matter. First Paragraph - Transmitted to the direction During the work, the President and other occupants of social positions will leave the table, remaining at the disposal of the Assembly, for any clarifications requested; Second Paragraph - The appointed President will choose from among those who do not occupy social positions, an “ad-hoc” secretary to assist him in drafting the decisions to be included in the minutes, by the secretary of the Assembly. Sicredi Center Pernambucana RuaSalL1mI|m Man who, Bu Baum Mdulruu dc Nassau 5502./no . c.m..—=m, Pt 1‘ Classification of informationoz Internal Use A V‘; I 5 Sicredi Art. 35 - The deliberations of the General Assembly may only deal with the matters of the Call Notice. First Paragraph - As a rule, voting will be in the open, but the General Assembly may opt for a secret vote, in compliance with the usual rules. Decisions on elimination, dismissal, resources and elections for social positions, however, can only be taken by secret vote. Second Paragraph - What happens at the General Assembly must be included in detailed Minutes, drawn up, in the Book of Minutes of General Assemblies Iida, discussed, voted on and signed at the end of the work, by: President, Secretary, and by a Committee of 3 (three ) members nominated by the plenary and also by as many others as they wish to do so. Third Paragraph - The decisions of the General Assemblies will be taken by the personal vote of those present with the right to vote, with each member entitled to one vote. Paragraph Four - When the number of members exceeds 12,000 (twelve thousand), they will be represented at the General Assemblies by delegates who have the quality of members, in the enjoyment of their social rights and do not hold elective positions in the society, as stated in the Internal Regulations. Paragraph Five - Elections of delegates will be held in sectional groups of members of equal number, who will be chosen by a simple majority of votes from the members present with the right to vote, at least 5 (five) days in advance of the General Assembly, with one delegate for a maximum of 100 (one hundred) members, lasting until the end of the General Assembly. Paragraph Six - The delegate will have only 01 (One) vote in the Assembly of delegates. Sicredi Center Pernambucana RL1dScllL1dlI|lu1 Mm mhu, 30 Baum Mdulxuu dc Nassau 5502,/no, cmwm, Pt 15 Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi Seventh Paragraph - To members located Ionge Headquarters, who cannot or do not want to be grouped into their own sectional group, are permitted to attend the Assemblies in person, without, however, being deprived of their voice and vote. Paragraph Eight - Members who are members of the sectional group, who are not delegates, may attend the General Assemblies, but will be deprived of their voice and vote. Paragraph Nine - The General Assemblies composed of delegates decide on all matters that, under the terms of the law and the Bylaws, constitute the object of decision of the General Assembly of members. The form of representation, therefore, began to be regulated in accordance with the provisions of Article 42 of Law number 5,764/71. Art. 36 — Prescribes in 4 (Four) years the action to annul the deliberations of the General Assembly vitiated by error, fraud, fraud or simulation, counting the period from the date of its holding. sE<;Ro II OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Art. 37 - The Ordinary General Assembly will be held obligatorily once a year, during of the first 4 (four) months after the end of the fiscal year, it will deliberate on the following matters, which must be included on the agenda: I - rendering of accounts of the Board of Directors, accompanied by an opinion from the Fiscal Council, comprising: a) report of pregnancy; b) balance sheets and other accounting statements; c) statement of surpluses or losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the company's expenses. II — allocation of leftovers calculated, deducting the installments for the Mandatory Funds, or apportioning the losses verified; Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rim Salrlmnlm Mai mliu, Bu Bzlllllj lVldUIiLlU dc NdL;LlLl asozzmo , cmrmm, Pt 15 Classification of informationoz Internal Use ‘D 7.» I 4 Sicredi III - election of the members of the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council; IV - establishment of the value of the attendance card and daily allowances of members of the Administrative and Fiscal Councils, and the value of fees, daily allowances and bonuses from the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors; V - authorize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets for the company's own use; VI - any matters of social interest, excluding those listed in article 46 of law no. 5,764, of 12/16/71. First Paragraph - The approval of the report, balance sheet and accounts of the management bodies does not relieve its components of responsibilities, including in cases of error, fraud, fraud or simulation, as well as violation of the law and this Statute; Paragraph Two - Members of the administration and supervisory bodies cannot participate in voting on the matters referred to in items I and IV of this article; Third Paragraph - The elections for the Administrative and Fiscal Councils will be held at the Ordinary General Assembly of the year in which the terms of office end; Paragraph Four - The deliberations of the Ordinary General Assembly will be taken by a simple majority of votes of the members present with the right to vote. vote. section III EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Run Salmaiilia Marmliu, Bu Baum lVldUIILlU dc Nassau 55022./no . c.m..—.m. Pt 17 Classification of information Internal Use ‘D 7.» I 4 Sicredi Art. 38 - The Extraordinary General Assembly will be held whenever necessary, and may deliberate on any matter of social interest as long as it is mentioned in the Call Notice. Art. 39 - It is the exclusive competence of the Extraordinary General Assembly, deliberate on the following matters: a) reform of the statute; b) merger, incorporation or dismemberment; c) change in the object of the cooperative; d) voluntary dissolution of the cooperative and appointment of Liquidator; e) approval of the Liquidator's accounts. Sole Paragraph - S50 requires votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members present, at the time of voting, to make the deliberations referred to in this article valid. SECTION IV in the BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD OF OFFICERS Art. 40 — A The Cooperative will be managed by a Board of Directors made up of 12 (twelve) members, natural persons, of which 9 (nine) are effective and 3 (three) substitutes, all associates and elected by the General Assembly. First Paragraph - The substitute councilors will exercise their mandate in the absence or impediment of the effective members. a) In cases of temporary absence or inability of the effective member to attend, his/her replacement will be made by the alternate member, as defined by the slate competitor or, in the case of individual voting, whoever has the highest ranking, according to the number of votes at the General Assembly in which the voting took place and, in the event of a tie, the criteria for seniority as a cooperative member will be, by checking their registration form. registration, and it is their responsibility to receive the attendance record. Sicredi Center Pernambucana RudSalL1aII|ld Man who, Bu Baum Mdulxuu dc Na;-;.xu 5502./no . c.m..—=m. Pt 13 Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi b) In the event of a vacancy in an effective position on the Board of Directors, an alternate member will be appointed, as defined by the competing list or, in the case of individual voting, by the one with the highest ranking, according to the number of votes at the General Assembly in which the vote took place and, if there is a tie, the criterion will be seniority as a member of the cooperative, by checking your registration form. Second Paragraph - The attendance record of the Board of Directors will be established by the General Assembly, in accordance with the provisions of Article no. 37, item IV. Third Paragraph - Relatives of each other, up to the 2nd degree, in a direct or collateral line, may not be part of the Board of Directors; Paragraph Four - The Administrative Councilors will be replaced in the event of their absence or impediment and will be replaced in cases of vacancy, respecting the provisions of this statute; Paragraph Five - The Board of Directors will not be personally responsible for the obligations they incur in the name of the cooperative, but will be jointly and severally liable for losses resulting from their actions, if they act with guilt or willful misconduct; Paragraph Six - Board members who participate in a social act or operation, in which the nature of the cooperative is hidden, may be declared personally responsible for the obligations contracted in its name, without prejudice to applicable criminal sanctions. Paragraph Seven - The members of the Board of Management, after their names have been approved by the Central Bank of Brazil, will be invested in their positions through a term of office recorded in the Minutes Book of the Board of Directors and will remain in office until their replacements take office. Eighth Paragraph — To be part of the Board of Directors, the member must have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years. RuaSalL1mI|m Man who, Bu Baum Mdulxuu dc Naumu I Sicredi Center Pernambucana ':'J(}'Z—/L'4()—CmLmrurPt 19 Classification of information Internal Use A V'; I 5 Sicredi Paragraph Nine - The General Assembly may dismiss the members of the Board of Directors at any time. Art. 41 - The term of office of the Board of Directors will be 4 (four) years, ending at the Ordinary General Meeting of the year in which the terms of office end, and it is mandatory, at the end of each period, to renew at least 1/3 (one tergo) of its components. Art. 42 - The plates candidates for elections for positions on the Board of Directors must be completed and registered with the cooperative up to 10 (ten) days before the election, at the request of at least 5 (five) members with the right to vote, with the administration being responsible for posting them in a visible place. First Paragraph - The slates running for election must be accompanied by a declaration from their components that, if elected, they will assume their respective mandates after approval by the Central Bank; Second Paragraph — When a slate is not installed, in the manner provided for in this article and paragraph, candidates will be nominated during the General Assembly. Third Paragraph - All candidates must have technical training compatible with and for the exercise of the position for which they applied, as defined in the Internal Regulations of Sicredi Centro Pernambucana and in the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. Paragraph Four — documents that prove the candidates’ technical qualifications must be delivered together with the application for registration of the ticket(s) competing for the election or at the AGM if nomination occurs during it. Art. 43 - In addition to those prevented by law and those disqualified by the Central Bank of Brazil, while the penalty has not been served, those sentenced to a penalty that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions, or by Sicredi Centro Pernambucana, are ineligible. Rua Saltlmnlm Mull mllu, 34 Baum lVmm:uo dc Na;-;txu 5502,/no , cmwn, Pt 2nd Classification of informationoz Internal Use A V‘; I 5 Sicredi crime of bankruptcy, malfeasance, fraud, bribery, concussion, embezzlement or against the popular economy, public faith or property. First Paragraph - The member who, in an operation, has an interest opposite to that of the cooperative, will not be able to participate in the deliberations that concern the same, and must accuse his/her impediment; Second Paragraph - The components of the Administration and Fiscal Council, as well as the Liquidators, are equivalent to administrators of Public Limited Companies, for the purposes of criminal liability; Third Paragraph - Without prejudice to any action that may be taken by any member, the cooperative, through its administrators, or represented by a member chosen at the General Assembly, will have the right to take action against the administrators to promote their responsibility; Paragraph Four - Any counselor who becomes ineligible, under the terms of this article, will lose his position, with the declaration of loss being made by the body to which he is assigned. integrated; Paragraph Five - The position will be vacated: a) due to death; b) by resignation; c) loss of membership status; d) for missing, without prior justification, 3 (three) consecutive or 5 (five) alternate meetings, during each year of office; e) by dismissal; f) due to unjustified absences or impediments, both exceeding 90 (ninety) days; g) by the sponsor, as party or proxy, of legal action against the cooperative, except those aimed at exercise of one's mandate; h) for becoming ineligible. Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Run Sdltlcllllld Malmllu, Bu Baum lVldUIILlU dc Nd‘;LLlLl 55022,/no , CLi’UL3’Ul Pt 21 Classification of informationoz Internal Use A V‘; I 5 Sicredi Art. 44 - The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: a) it meets, ordinarily, once a month and, extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by the President, the majority of the Board itself or even by request from Fiscal Council; b) deliberates, validly in the presence of the majority of its members, with the President exercising the tie-breaking vote; c) the deliberations of the Board of Directors will be recorded in detailed minutes, recorded in the Minutes Book of the Board of Directors meetings, voted on and signed by the meeting participants. First Paragraph - In cases of impediment for periods of less than 90 (ninety) days, the President will be replaced by an advisor chosen by the majority of the Board of Directors; Second Paragraph - In the absence or impediment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, for a period exceeding 90 (ninety) days, except when in the interest of the cooperative or, if more than half of the positions on the Board of Directors remain vacant for any period of time, the President or the remaining members, if the Presidency is vacant, must call the General Assembly to fill the positions; Third Paragraph - Substitutes they will hold their positions only until the end of their predecessors' term of office; Art. 45 - At its first meeting, the Board of Directors will choose from among its effective members the President of the Board of Directors, with the President being responsible, subject to the limits of the Law, these Bylaws, the Internal Regulations, the decisions of the General Assembly and the Board itself. Council, the following duties: I — convene and preside over meetings and activities of the Board of Directors, coordinating and organizing your agenda; Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rim Saldmnlm Mai miiu, Bu Baum NidUIiLiU dc Na;-mi: 5502,/no , CLHLn‘:iLi« Pt 22 Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi II - coordinate the monitoring and actions of the members of the Board of Directors; III - exercise the casting vote in meetings of the Board of Directors; IV - convene the General Assembly, the holding of which has been decided by the Board of Directors, and preside over it with legal reservations; V - coordinate the work related to the strategic planning of each exercise; VI - coordinate the work of preparing the management report together with the Board of Directors and direct the rendering of accounts to members at assembly meetings; VII - fulfill other duties designated by the General Assembly and the Board of Directors; VIII — represent the cooperative at the General Assembly of CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE or appoint a member of the Board of Directors and/or the Board of Directors to this end. IX — investiture the Fiscal Council and the Board of Directors; X — Draft or coordinate the drafting of minutes of meetings and issue acts relating to the deliberations of the Board of Directors; XI - resolve omitted cases together with the other effective advisors; XII — ensure that counselors receive complete and timely information to carry out their mandates; XIII — ensure compliance with what is established in this Statute, in the resolutions, in the Rules Internal, in the Electoral Regulations and other legal norms; XIV — present to the Ordinary General Assembly the documents referred to in Article 37, item I; XV — actively and passively represent the cooperative in or out of court. First Paragraph - The indication of the name for the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors may be known from the moment the candidate is registered for election to the respective Board. RL1dScllL1dlI|lu1 Mm mhu, Bu Baum Mdulxuu dc Nassau I Sicredi Centro Pernambucana ':')(}'2— MO — Cnrnmrrw Pt 23 Classification of information Internal Use 'D 7.» I 4 Sicredi Second Paragraph - In the absences and temporary impediments of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, less than 90 days, after summoning a alternate, a name will be chosen by a simple majority of secret votes among the members of the Board of Directors to replace the President. Third Paragraph — Only one board member may be part of the Board of Directors. Art. 46 - Apart from the specific duties of the previous article, the Board of Directors is vested with powers to resolve all management acts, including compromising, contracting obligations, pledging assets and rights, as well as contracting credit operations with Banco do Brasil S. A. and others official or private financial institutions, intended for the cooperative’s activities. Sole Paragraph - To carry out the operations mentioned in this article, the Board of Directors is invested of powers to authorize the Superintendent Director or his legal substitute, together with another director, to sign proposals, budgets, credit opening contracts, credit notes, additional mentions, amendments to rectify and ratify signed contracts, increase credits, reinforcements, replacement or remission of guarantees, issue and endorse checks, credit notes, promissory notes, bills of exchange and other credit instruments, give receipts and discharges, as well as sign correspondence and other papers. BOARD OF BOARD Art. 47 - The Executive Board will be composed of at least 2 (two) directors, being a Superintendent Director and a Financial Director, and a maximum of 3 (three) directors, being a Superintendent Director, an Administrative Director and a Director Financial, indicated and appointed by the Board of Directors, chosen from among members or non-members of the cooperative, in accordance with art. 5th of Complementary Law No. 130, of 2009, with a mandate to 4 (four) years, within the limits of the Law, these Bylaws, the Internal Regulations and in compliance with the decisions of the General Assembly and the Board of Directors, the simultaneous holding of positions on the Board of Directors and the Executive Board is prohibited, and they are responsible for: Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rua Salrlmnlm Mal mliu, Bu Baum lVldUIlLlU dc Nassau 5502,/no , cmwu, Pt 2' Classification of informationoz Internal Use A V'; I 5 Sicredi I. manage the Cooperative in its services and operations; II. direct activities related to education, training, communication, marketing and social promotion of the cooperative, submitting the proposals prepared for final deliberation by the Board of Directors; III. plan operations, taking into account available resources and the financial needs of members; IV. periodically propose the setting of the maximum loan amounts and terms, as well as the interest rate and other references, in order to meet the largest possible number of customers. associates, ad referendum of the Board of Directors; V. regulate the administrative services of the Cooperative, being able to hire services, managers and other employees, within or outside the membership, who cannot be related to each other or to the members of the Administration and Fiscal Council, up to the second degree in a straight line or collateral, setting their duties and salaries; SAW. set the maximum limit of cash that can be kept in cash; VII. prepare, to assessment of the Board of Directors, draft resolutions, regulations and internal regulations, as well as its actions; VIII. approve credit proposals from members, in compliance with the general rules set out in the regulations or in a resolution of the Board of Directors; IX. coordinate the implementation of courses, training and other related events, suggesting appropriate measures and actions to the Board of Directors; X. delegate powers to managers and/or executives, determining their duties, assignments and responsibilities, in accordance with the Internal Regulations. XI. delegate powers to executives, establishing their responsibilities, assignments and responsibilities, including for joint signature of 2 (two), in compliance with the Cooperative's Internal Regulations. XII. record in minutes the decisions and resolutions that will be sent monthly to the Administrative and Fiscal Councils; First Paragraph — In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be exercised cumulatively by the directors, Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rua Salrlmnlm Mai mliu, Bu Baum lVmunLiu dc Na;-;uLi 5502./no . Cmnmrm Pt 25 Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi as determined by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. Second Paragraph - The decision to exchange positions between the Directors is the responsibility of the Board of Directors. Third Paragraph - Checks issued by the Cooperative, letters and credit orders, endorsements, sureties, guarantees, cooperative deposit receipts, power of attorney instruments, contracts with third parties and other documents constituting the responsibility or obligation of the Cooperative, must be signed jointly by 2 (two) directors or by 1 (one) director and 1 (one) ) manager previously authorized by the President of the Board of Directors. Paragraph Four - The administrators are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until comply. If there are losses, joint and several liability will be limited to the respective amount. Paragraph Five - The components of the administrative bodies and the Supervisory Board, as well as the Liquidator, are equivalent to the administrators of public limited companies for the purposes of criminal liability. Paragraph Six - Without prejudice to the action that belongs to the member, the Cooperative, through its administrators or represented by a member chosen at the General Assembly, will have the right to take action against administrators, to promote their responsibility. Seventh Paragraph - All Directors must have technical training compatible with and for the exercise of the position for which they are appointed, as defined in the Internal Regulations of Sicredi Centro Pernambucana and in the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. Paragraph Eight - In case of absences or temporary impediments of less than 60 (sixty) calendar days, the Superintendent Director will be replaced by the Administrative Director and this by the Financial Director. Paragraph Nine — In cases of vacancy in the positions of Superintendent Director, Administrative Director and/or Financial Director, or absences or impediments lasting more than 60 (sixty) calendar days, the Board of Directors will designate replacements. RuaSalL1mI|m Man who, Bu Baum Mdulxuu dc Na;-sou I Sicredi Centro Pernambucana ‘:‘)(}‘2— MO — Curnmrrw Pt 25 Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi Paragraph Ten — The implementation of structure administrative integrated by the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors subordinate to it, will occur from the first election of administrators, which will take place in the first four months of 2013, in accordance with Article no. 18, “caput” and paragraph 10, of Resolution No. 3,859/10, of the National Monetary Council. Art. 48 - The Superintendent Director is responsible, among others, for the following duties: a) supervise the general administration and activities of the cooperative, through permanent contacts with the Board of Directors, other directors, employees and advisors; b) sign, together with another director, balance sheets and balance sheets, credit opening contracts, amendments, additional payments, drafts, receipts or orders, give discharges, issue or endorse checks, duplicates, promissory notes, exchange bills, as well as other documents derived from normal management activity; c) apply the penalties that are decided by the Board of Directors or General Assemblies; d) other duties that the Board of Directors, through Internal Regulations, or resolution, may confer upon it. Art. 49 - The Administrative Director is responsible, among others, for the following duties: a) replace the Superintendent Director in his eventual impediments; b) command and coordinate all administrative services of the cooperative, related to properties, office material, office hours and personnel; c) be responsible for the services relating to registration, accounting and statistics; d) advise the Superintendent Director on matters within his area; e) guide, monitor and evaluate the performance of personnel in their area; f) carry out other duties conferred upon it by the Board of Directors and Board of Directors; RuaSalL1mI|m Man who, Bu Baum Mdulxuu dc Nassau I Sicredi Center Pernambucana ':'J(}'Z—/L'4()—CmLmrurPt 27 Classification of information Internal Use q: Sicredi I g) resolve omitted cases, in set with the Superintendent Director. h) formulate, together with the Financial Director, annual budgets for consideration by the Board of Directors; i) sign together with the Superintendent Director or another director, the documents listed in a|I'nea “b” of the previous article; j) be responsible for the Ombudsman. Art. 50 - The Financial Director is responsible, among others, for the following duties: a) coordinating the cooperative's operations; b) grant within the limits that are ﬁxed by the Board of Directors, for its authority, the general credit operations of the cooperative, as provided for in the Internal Regulations; c) be responsible for training credit operators, assistants and technical advisors; d) enforce instructions issued by monetary authorities, as well as legal and regulatory precepts relating to specialized credit practices and their policy; e) annually formulate, together with the Administrative Director, budgets for assessment by the Board of Directors; f) sign together with the Superintendent Director and/or the Administrative Director, documents listed in a|I'nea “b” of Article 48, of these Bylaws; g) Guide and monitor accounting, together with the Administrative Director, in order to allow a permanent view of its economic, financial and patrimonial situation. h) replace the Administrative Director in his eventual impediments; i) advise the Superintendent Director on matters of your area; j) guide, monitor and evaluate the performance of personnel in their area; k) carry out other duties conferred upon it by the Board of Directors and Board of Directors; Sicredi Center Pernambucana RuaSalL1mI|m Man who, Bu Baum Mdulxuu dc Nassau 5502,/no , cmrmm, Pt 23 Classification of information Internal Use A V‘; I 5 Sicredi |) resolve omitted cases, together with the Superintendent Director. SECTION IV OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 51 - The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised, assiduously and thoroughly, by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 3 (three) substitutes, all members elected for a term of office of 2 (two) years, subject to the renewal of at least 2 (two) ) members at each election, with 1 (one) member and 1 (one) substitute, remaining in office until their replacements take office. First Paragraph The Fiscal Council meets on an extraordinary monthly basis, whenever necessary; 9: Second Paragraph - The Deliberations will be taken by a simple majority of votes and will be recorded in the minutes, drawn up in the appropriate book, approved and signed at the end of the work at each meeting, by the fiscal councilors. Art. 52 - At their first meeting, the effective members of the Fiscal Council will choose from among themselves a coordinator responsible for convening and directing the work of the meetings and a secretary to keep the minutes. First Paragraph - In the absence of the coordinator, the work will be directed by a chosen substitute In this ocasion; Second Paragraph - The effective members of the Fiscal Council, in the event of resignation, impediment, death or loss of mandate, will be replaced by alternates, in order of seniority as a member of the Cooperative and, in the event of a tie, in descending order of age. Sicredi Center Pernambucana Rua Salrlmnlm Mai mliu, Bu Baum lVldUIiLlU dc Na;-sari 5502,/no , cmrmm, Pt 29 Classification of information Internal use q: Sicredi Art. 53 - The Fiscal Council will exercise assiduous and thorough supervision of the cooperative's operations, investigating facts, collecting information, examining books and documents. First Paragraph - In carrying out its functions, the Supervisory Board may use information from the cooperative's employees, or the assistance of an external technician, when the importance or complexity of the matters so require. Paragraph Two - Supervision will be carried out, including a) examining the bookkeeping of treasury books. B) monthly count the cash balance and report the existence of recorded documents; c) check whether excess balances were regularly deposited in banks and whether account statements match the cooperative's books; d) examine whether all loans were granted in accordance with the rules established by the Board of Directors, as well as whether there are guarantees for the security of the operations carried out; e) check whether the standards for granting loans are those that best meet the needs of the membership; f) verify whether the loans granted by the directors, on an emergency basis, comply with the established standards; g) check whether the appropriate measures have been taken to settle any outstanding member debts; h) check whether the expenses were previously approved by the Board of Directors; i) verify the balance between administrative expenses and revenues to cover them; j) examine the general accounting book and monthly balance sheets; k) verify that the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors regularly communicate; Rua Sdlddlllld Marmiiu, Bu Baum NidUIILiU dc Nassau I Sicredi Centro Pernambucana 55022'/Q0'CLi'L'L3'UiPl: 3rd Classification of information Internal Use 72.5 Sicredi I I) verify the regular functioning of the cooperative with the Central Bank of Brazil and whether there are complaints or demands from that agency to be met; m) present to the Board of Administration of reports on exams carried out; n) present the General Assembly with an opinion on social operations, based on the half-yearly balance sheets and accounts; 0) call, extraordinarily, at any time, the General Assembly, if serious and urgent reasons arise. SECTION v OF THE SINGLE OMBUDSMAN ORGANIZATIONAL COMPONENT OF THE SICREDI NORTEI NORDESTE SYSTEM Art. 54 — The Cooperative adhered to the Single Ombudsman Organizational Component of the SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE SYSTEM, structured and maintained by Central Sicredi Noite/Nordeste, under the terms set out in the governing legislation and in the rules set out in the Bylaws of CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE and in the Agreement signed between the entities of the SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE SYSTEM that established this Ombudsman Component, with 0 objective of ensuring compliance with standards relating to the rights of members and users, and of acting as a communication channel between the entities that make up the System, its members and others users of its products and services, including in conflict mediation, committing to ensure compliance with legal and systemic standards relating to the functioning of the Ombudsman's Office. TITLE VII BALANCE SHEET, SURPLUS, LOSSES AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 55 — The general balance sheet, including the comparison between income and expenses plus depreciation, will be drawn up, semi-annually, on June 30th and December 31st. First Paragraph - The following installments will be deducted from the verified surpluses: a) 10 °/o (ten percent) to the Reserve Fund; Sicredi Centra Pernambucana Hua Saltlmnlm Mal mliu 3a Baniu lVldUllLlU Llc Na;-sou 5502,/no , cmtmm, Pt 31 Classification of informationoz Internal Use A V‘; I 5 Sicredi b) 8 °/o (eight percent) to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund - FATES; c) The remaining balance will be made available to the General Assembly; Second Paragraph — The leftovers calculated, in accordance with this article, will be returned to the members, in direct proportion to the operations carried out by each member of the cooperative. Third Paragraph - The losses recorded each semester will be apportioned among the members after approval of the balance sheet by the Ordinary General Assembly, in proportion to the operations carried out with the cooperative. Paragraph Four — The results of each semester, surpluses or losses, are different from each other, being submitted separately to the decision of the Ordinary General Assembly. Paragraph Five - It may be paid to associates annual remuneration on paid-in capital, subject to the limits set out in current legislation. Art. 56 — Non-operational income and credits not claimed by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members also revert to FATES after a period of 3 (three) years following their dismissal. Sole Paragraph - Aid and donations, without special allocation, as well as those defined in this article, revert to the Technical Assistance Fund, Educational or Social. Art. 57 - The Reserve Fund is intended to cover eventual and unforeseen losses that the cooperative may suffer during its development. Art. 58 - The funds constituted in accordance with Art. 55, First Paragraph, S50 are indivisible among the members, even in the case of dissolution and liquidation of the cooperative. Sicredi Center Pernambucana RuaSalL1mI|m Man who, Bu Baum Mdulxuu dc Nassau 5502,/no , cmrmm, Pt 32 Classification of informationoz Internal Use 72.5 Sicredi Art. 59 - The Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund - FATES is intended to provide assistance to members, their legal dependents and employees of the cooperative, according to programs approved by the General Assembly. Art. 60 - The services to be provided by the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund may be carried out through an agreement. Art. 61 - Sicredi Centro Pernambucana is obliged to participate in the Deposit Guarantee Fund (FGD) of the SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE SYSTEM in the form, terms and conditions established in the Fund's own regulations, with the purpose of providing liquidity to depositor members. TITLE VIII OF THE SYSTEM OF CREDIT COOPERATIVES PART OF THE SICREDI NORTEI NORDESTE SYSTEM AND SOLIDARITY Art. 62 — THE SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE SYSTEM is integrated by the CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE and the individuals associated with them, including the Cooperative, and the individuals associated companies, including SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA. Art. 63 — The actions of the SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE SYSTEM are coordinated by the CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, which represents the Sicredi North/Nordeste System as a whole, in accordance with the guidelines issued before the cooperative segment, the Central Bank of Brazil, bank(s) partner(s), and other governmental and private bodies. Art. 64 — The Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Credit Cooperative is subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste towards third parties up to the limit of the value of the shares of the capital that they subscribe to, with this liability continuing in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the dismissal took place, without prejudice to the joint and several liability of the Cooperativa de Crédito Sicredi Centro Pernambucana towards the CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, established in the second and third paragraphs of this article. Hua Saltlmnlm Mal Hlllu 3a Same lVmunuu Llc Na;-;uu I Sicredi Centro Pernambucana 5502./mo.c.m..em+=t 33 Classification of information Internal Use 72.5 Sicredi First Paragraph — The responsibility of the Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Credit Cooperative, in accordance with current legislation, may only be invoked after judicial demand from CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, except in the cases of the second and third paragraphs of this article. Second Paragraph - The Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Credit Cooperative, under the terms of article 265 et seq. of the Brazilian Civil Code, will respond jointly and severally, up to the limit of the value of the shares subscribed, due to insufficient liquidity of any and all nature caused by CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, as well as due to the default of any other associate of CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, considered as a whole of them as an integrated System, observing the provisions of the third paragraph of this article. Third Paragraph - If the Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Credit Cooperative gives rise to insufficient liquidity of any and all nature, CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA will respond with its assets and in the event of its insufficiency with the assets of its administrators. Fourth Paragraph - The Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Credit Cooperative, a member of the Financial Centralization System, will be subject to the rules of the reciprocal guarantee system in relation to credit operations carried out between the Sicredi Centro Credit Cooperative Pernambucana and Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste, transfer of official and private resources, as well as financial investments in the manner defined in the investment policy of Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste. Art. 65 — COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA is responsible for complying with and enforcing assembly decisions, rules, regulations, regulations and the Bylaws of CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, to which the COOPERATIVA is associated. Sole Paragraph: THE SICREDI CENTRO CREDIT COOPERATIVE PERNAMBUCANA delegates powers to CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE Rua Saltlmnlm Mai mliu, Bu Baum lVldUllLlU dc Na;-mt: I Sicredi Centro Pernambucana ':')(}'2— Mi) — Cnrnmrui PE 34 Classification of informationoz Internal Use 72.5 Sicredi implement internal controls based on the Internal Regulations of the SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE SYSTEM — complying with the recommendations coming from the Central. Art. 66 — COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA is obliged to participate in the constitution and permanence of the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCOOP) as long as it remains associated with CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE in the form, deadlines and conditions established in the Fund's own regulations. SECTION v1 ADMINISTRATION OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES Art. 67 — SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA, to participate in the process called “financial administration” which is managed and administered by CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, must have an administrative, economic, managerial, adequate and sufficient financial and assets at the discretion of CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE. Art. 68 - SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA, to participate in the process called “financial administration”, undertakes to comply with and comply with all standards inherent to the aforementioned process originating from CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE, allowing CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE to carry out audits , inspectorates and the like in your accounts and balance sheets. Sole Paragraph: SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA allows, in terms of the regulations in force, that CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE adopts necessary measures aimed at reestablishing the regular functioning of the COOPERATIVA, in the manner provided for in the Bylaws of CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE with the aim of maintaining the level of liquidity and security of the System . Art. 69 — SICREDI CENTRO PERNAMBUCANA recognizes as extrajudicial executive title under the terms of article 585, ll of the Code of Civil Procedure (CPC) contracts formalized with CENTRAL SICREDI NORTH/NORTHESTE. Hua Salrlmnlm May mliu 3a B:llllL} lVldUllLlU Llc Nassau I Sicredi Centra Pernambucana 5502./mo.c.m..em.+=L 35 Classification of informationoz Internal Use A (As I 5 Sicredi Title IX DA DISSOLU<;Ko E LIQUIDAQAO Art 70 - The cooperative will dissolve in the cases specified below, opportunities in which one or more Liquidators and 3 (three) members of the Supervisory Board must be appointed to carry out its liquidation I. when so decided by the General Assembly, provided that the associates, totaling the minimum number required by Article 4 of this Statute, are not willing to ensure its continuity; II. due to changes in its legal form; III. by reducing the minimum number of members or the minimum share capital if, until the subsequent General Assembly, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV. for the cancellation of authorization to operate; V. by the suspension of its activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; First Paragraph - The General Assembly, within the limits of its powers, may at any time dismiss the Liquidators and members of the Fiscal Council, designating their replacements; Second Paragraph - In all acts and operations, Liquidators must use the name of the cooperative, followed by the expression “in liquidation”. Third Paragraph - The liquidation process can only be initiated after approval from the Central Bank of Brazil. Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Run Salrlanlua Marmllu, Bu Baum lVldUIILlU dc Nassau 55022,/no , cmml, Pt 35 Classification of information Internal Use A V‘; I 5 Sicredi Art. 71 - The dissolution of the cooperative will result in the cancellation of authorization to operate and registration. Art. 72 — The Liquidators will have all normal powers of administration, as well as to carry out acts and operations necessary to realize the assets and pay the liabilities; Sole Paragraph - In the event of dissolution of the cooperative, the remainder uncommitted assets and 05 funds constituted in accordance with Article 58, Paragraph One, will be allocated in accordance with the law in force. TITle North East. TITLE x1 OF GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 74 - S50 basic conditions to hold elected positions: a) be a natural person; b) have an unblemished reputation, verified through the examination of registration information; c) not be prevented by law; d) there has not been a protest against the title that has not been canceled by payment or by court order; e) not having had an account closed due to improper use of checks; Sicredi Centro Pernambucana Run Sdltlcllllld Marmliu, Bu Baum lVldUIILlU dc Naszuri 55022./no . c.m..am, Pt 37 Classification of information Internal Use 72.5 Sicredi f) not have participated as a member or administrator of a company or company that, during the period of its participation or administration, up to 2 (two) years before taking office, has protested titles, has been held responsible in legal action or has an account closed by misuse of checks; g) not be bankrupt or in receivership or partner of a bankrupt or receivership legal entity; h) not be a person declared disqualified from holding management positions in a financial institution, company insurance company, private pension entity or publicly-held company; i) have not participated in the management of a financial institution whose operating authorization has been revoked or not extended, or which is in extrajudicial liquidation, receivership, bankruptcy or under government intervention; j) not participate in the administration of any other non-cooperative financial institution; k) not hold 5% (five percent) or more of the capital of any non-cooperative financial institution; I) not be the spouse of a person elected to any statutory position; m) there is no kinship up to the 2nd (second) degree, straight or collateral, between its members. Art. 75 - Any statutory reform depends on prior and express approval from the Central Bank of Brazil, so that it can come into force and be filed in the trade registry. Art. 76 - The cooperative will submit the names of the members elected to the Board of Directors for approval by the Central Bank of Brazil, within 15 (fifteen) days. Administration, Board of Directors and Fiscal Council. Art. 77 - The inauguration of those elected will be subject to the provisions of the Central Bank of Brazil. Rua Saltlmnlm Mal mliu, Bu Baum lVldUliLlU dc Na;-'.txLi I Sicredi Center Pernambucana 5502./no.c.m..nn+=r 33 Classification of information Internal Use A') I q: Sicredi Sole Paragraph - The Board of Directors and Auditors and Directors who are not re-elected will remain in office until those elected take office. Art. 78 - Omitted cases or Doubtful issues will be resolved in accordance with the law and doctrinal principles, after consultation with the assistance and inspection bodies of the Multinational Economy and Credit cooperativism. Bylaws approved at the General Constitutional Assembly held on 05/12/1993, modified at Extraordinary General Assemblies on June 25, 2009, September 12, 2009, July 2, 2010, July 2, 2011, August 17 2012, January 7, 2013, March 28, 2014, February 25, 2015, April 27, 2016, August 31, 2018, May 19, 2020 and March 12, 2021. Anibal Cantarelli Neto — Chairman of the Board of Directors Antonyver Carvalho de Mendonga — Superintendent Director Alcindo Bezerra de Menezes Neto — Financial Director Sicredi Centro Pemambucana Run Saldanha Marmllu, 31¢ Bamo l\/ldulluu dc Nassau 55022,/no , Carnmrm we 39 Information classification Internal use