Regulations — Belong CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This Regulation governs the procedures that govern the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management process and development of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - Cooperative Credit System, hereinafter referred to simply as “cooperatives” or “cooperative”. First paragraph. In addition to the provisions of the caput, the Program also aims to equip cooperatives in order to expand the participation of members in matters related to their management and development, through centers. Art. 2° The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 3 The provisions contained in this Regulation regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after the adjustment of the cooperative's bylaws, covering this form of participation, in accordance with the regulations in force, and apply cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 1° Cooperatives that serve specific segments and/or categories are It is optional to adopt this form of member participation as long as it has the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 2° For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will receive the name of nucleus coordinator in these Regulations. CHAPTER II NUCLEUS Art. 4 The group of members of the cooperative is considered core, taking into account the following premises: Classification of Information — [classification] Page 2 of 10 A I‘; L Regulation — Belonging to Sicredi I - a The cooperative will define the number of members per branch, observing the limit of branches established in the Bylaws, through registration in the minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. The number of members per nucleus cannot be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II - after this definition, the number of members grouped in the centers cannot exceed a variation of 50% (fifty percent) more or less; III - the cooperative must have at least 11 (eleven) member centers, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - to guarantee the right to vote for members of newly opened branches or those that have not reached the number defined in section I of this article, the Board of Directors will define the form of participation of these members in the centers; V - the cooperative will define the number of nuclei grouped in the same assembly of nodes, preferably not exceeding 5 (five), in the case of in-person meetings. § 1 When the number of core members exceeds the variation of 50% (fifty percent), more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in item I of this article. § 2° When the number of branches in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote the bylaws change. CHAPTER III CORE MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES Art. 5° A meeting is considered the meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members or coordinators to discuss issues of specific interest to the membership, the nucleus or those defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Single paragraph. The meetings will be organized and held with the prior consent of the Board of Directors. Classification of Information — [classification] Page 3 of 10 ﬁe Regulation — Belonging Art. 6° It is considered core assembly is the event held with members in person, semi-in-person or digitally with the aim of deliberating on: I - the election and dismissal of the nL'ic|eo coordinator, effective and substitutes; ll - the matters of the general assembly of the cooperative, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 2 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 1° The call for core assemblies, containing the date, time, place and/or form of their holding and matters to be resolved, will be made through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably at least 10 (ten) days in advance. § 2° The call will be made by the President or Vice-President of the Board of Directors. § 3° In the event that the call for the general assembly of delegates is carried out by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the full members enjoyment of your rights social, the meetings of nL'1c|eo must automatically be called. § 4. If the provisions of the previous paragraph occur, at least 3 (three) counselors or associates must sign the call. § 5 Regardless of the form of implementation, the nucleus assembly will be considered valid when, at the time of its opening, it was attended by at least 10 (ten) members per nucleus. § 6° If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per nL'ic|eo, there must be a new call in accordance with § 1 of this article. If there is not enough time to call it, the vote of the group will not be considered at the general meeting. §7° The matters of the core assemblies will be considered approved by a simple majority of the votes present, except for statutory reform, when 2/3 of the votes of those present will be necessary. §8° In case of a tie in the nucleus voting, the nucleus coordinator will vote to break the tie. §9° In the event of absence of coordinators of effective and deputy number(s), the assembly will appoint an ad hoc coordinator to represent it in the assembly of delegates. Classification of information — [classification] Page 4 of 10 \ 31$ Regulations — Belonging to Sicredi §10. In the event of a tie in the voting for candidates for the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, if the coordinators of nL'Jc|and the effective and deputy(s) are absent, the candidate whose group of candidates presents the longest average time will be considered the winner. in association with a cooperative. Art. 7 In addition to the specificities described in articles 5 and 6, meetings and assemblies of centers are recognized spaces for qualified participation of members with questions, demonstrations and strategic contributions, as well as learning, formation of cooperative identity and belonging. Single paragraph. Actions structured throughout the fiscal year will be considered an integral part of the annual meeting movement when duly registered the presence in the Pertencer Program tool, and its activities and results included in the minutes for the respective treatment. CHAPTER IV THE NUCLEO COORDINATOR Art. 8° the nL'Jc|eo coordinator is the individual member elected at the core assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and representing the members at general assemblies, when the cooperative adopts this modality. Art. 9° To apply for and carry out the activities of nucleus coordinator, the applicant must: I - have certification in the Crescer Program; II - make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a political-party position or function upon election, or during the term of office, in compliance with the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws; IV - not respond, due to pending issues related to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and others occurrences or similar circumstances, in addition to not having a negative record in any banks. party or attorney, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi; V - not being an employee of the cooperative or having been dismissed from the cooperative for fair reasons cause; and VI - not be a former counselor or former director who is subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of his term of office or who, for the same reasons, has been dismissed or resigned from the position for which he was elected . Art. 10. The duties of the nucleoz I coordinator will be considered — when invited by the Board of Directors, to participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the cooperative's social projects; II - participate in meetings of nucleus coordinators, nL'Jc|eo meetings and nucleus assembly; III - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - participate, when invited by the President or Board Member, in events of interest to the cooperative; and V - participate in the training of coordinators in the cooperative, disseminating cooperativism. Single paragraph. Member data cannot be provided by the cooperative to the coordinator of nL'1c|eo, due to the confidentiality of information. Art. 11. In addition to the matters set out in the sections of art. 5th of these Regulations, the following will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of nL'Jc|eo coordinators: I - preparation of core assemblies that precede the general assemblies; II - issues related to the development of the cooperative; III - analysis of the cooperative's economic and financial situation; IV - others of interest to the cooperative administration. Classification of Information — [classification] Page 6 of 10 ﬁe Regulation — Belonging CHAPTER V OF THE ELECTION PROCESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 12. The election of the nucleus coordinators will take place in an assembly of nL'Jc|and in good time before the general assembly of the cooperative, and the candidate must register, using a specific form provided by the cooperative, within the deadline established in the call for the core assembly. Sole paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with requirements for the role and inform the candidate. Art. 13. The mandate of core coordinators will comply with the term set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 14. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 15. Nucleoz I coordinators will be considered elected - the member with the most votes and the second most voted by the nucleus will respectively be considered effective coordinator and coordinator substitute, and so on depending on whether there is a greater number of substitutes; II - the members with the highest number of votes, when presented as candidates jointly, effective and substitute(s), indicating the order of replacement; III - the members presented as the only candidates, effective and substitute(s), acclaimed by the Nucleus Assembly. § 1° In any of the hypotheses in items I and II of this article, the replacement order must be recorded in the election minutes. § 2° In case of When voting is tied, the member who will perform the duties of nL'Jc|coordinator and the effective member will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, the same rule being valid for substitutes. Information Classification — [classification] Page 7 of 10 A I‘; L Regulation — Belonging to Sicredi Art. 16. The investiture of nL'ic|e coordinators will occur automatically after the announcement of the election results. Art. 17. In the event of vacancy of the coordinator of nL’1c|and the effective one, he/she will assume the role as the first substitute. If there are no substitutes to take over, the members of nL'ic|eo will elect new nucleus coordinators in accordance with these Regulations, effective and alternate (3), to fulfill the remainder of the term. § 1° The hypotheses of vacancy of nucleoz coordinators I - loss of membership status; II - failure to attend, without justification, the general meeting of the cooperative, at the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, resignation and destitution; IV - health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in his duties; V - as a party or attorney-in-fact, promote legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; VI - no longer meets the conditions for the role of core coordinator, in accordance with this Regulation; VII - be elected member of the Administrative Council or Fiscal Council of the cooperative, or even director; VIII - hold a position in corporate bodies in a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; IX — the transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; and X - become an employee of another Sicredi cooperative or financial institution. § 2 In the event that the nucleus coordinator is nominated as a candidate for a political-partisan position, he must submit a request for resignation within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the convention of the party in which he the appointment is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy of the position. For the purposes of this Regulation, a political-partisan position is understood to be the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws. § 3° The dismissal of the nL'ic|e coordinator will occur by deliberation of the members in a branch assembly. Other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. Classification of Information — [classification] Page 8 of 10 ﬁe Regulation — Belonging CHAPTER VI DA REPRESENTATIVENESS OF NUCLEO COORDINATORS Art. 18. Effective nL'Jc|eo coordinators represent the members at the general assemblies of the cooperative and, if they are unable to attend, their substitutes. § 1 Whenever the effective core coordinator is present at the general assembly, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. § 2° As soon as you become aware of the impossibility of attending the general meeting or need to be absent when it is already has started, the nL'Jc|coordinator and the effective one must communicate the fact to his alternate and also to the President of the Board of Directors or the President of the Assembly for his replacement. § 3° If it is impossible for the coordinator of nL'Jc|eo, effective and alternate(s), to participate in the general assembly, the President of the assembly will request the secretary or another associate, who will act as representative for the act, who presents the vote, reading the result of the vote of the respective core, in order to be computed at the general assembly, restrictively to those matters that were previously considered at the Core Assembly. § 4° According to the system set out in § 4° of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the nucleus coordinator's vote will be linked to the decisions of the nucleus he represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the nucleus assembly. § 5° The absence of the coordinator at the general assembly will be informed by the cooperative to the respective nL’Jc|eo in the first assembly of nL’1c|eo whatever takes place. CHAPTER VII FINAL PROVISIONS Classification of Information — [classification] Page 9 of 10 \ 31$ Regulation — Belonging to Sicredi Art. 19. The nucleus coordinator will not receive any type of remuneration, except for reimbursement of his/her expenses for carrying out the function, which must be decided by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 20. Meetings and core assemblies held by the Cooperatives must be registered in advance in the Pertencer Program management tool. Art. 21. A cooperative beginning its activity or recently integrated into the System will enter this Belonging Program after evaluation and recommendation by the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. This Belonging Regulation was approved at the General Assembly held on 04/14/2023. Information Classification — [classification] Page 10 of 10