Classification of information: Unrestricted Use COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT OF THE STATE MILITARY OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL – SICREDI MIL RS (Future corporate name: Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the State Military and Security Servants of the State of Rio Gr ande do Sul – Sicredi Mil RS) CNPJ no. 03.212.823/0001 -79 CALL NOTICE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Digital Modality The President of the Credit Cooperative, Savings and Investment of the State Military of Rio Grande do Sul – Sicredi Mil RS, using the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, calls on the associated gentlemen, who on this date total 4,700 (four thousand and seven hundred), to meet at an ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING, to be held on March 23, 2023, at 2 (fourteen) hours, on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members; on second call, at 3 (fifteen) hours, with the presence of half of the members plus one, and, on the third and final call, at 4 (sixteen) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from Ópera Produtora, located at Rua Dona Margarida, no. 46, Bairro Navegantes, in the municipality of Porto Alegre, for all members, simultaneously, using the Pertencer Tool* accessed via the website www .sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surplus; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Election of the members of the Board of Directors. 4. Setting the value of fees, bonuses and benefits for the President and attendance cards for Vice-President and members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils. 5. Approval of the Directors’ Succession Policy. 6. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Porto Alegre/RS, March 10, 2023. Luiz Antonio Fouchi de Leon Classification of information: Unrestricted Use President NOTES: 1. The Assembly will be held in digital format, the fashion for which is supported by art. 17 - A of Complementary Law No. 130/2009, as well as DREI Normative Instruction No. 81, of June 10, 2020. 2. The Administrator Succession Policy is available at the Cooperative's headquarters. 3. *Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi. com.br/ assemblies, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, including the representative legal entity member (if applicable), on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, opportunity and in which you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. 4. The Assembly will be recorded electronically. 5. The name social “Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of State Military and State Security Servants of Rio Grande do Sul – Sicredi Mil RS” was approved at the Extraordinary General Assembly of 03/02/2023, the act of which depends on approval by the Bank Central do Brasil for subsequent filing at the Commercial Board of Rio Grande do Sul.