Classification of information: Internal Use CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVA DA REGION DAS FLORES, DAS ÁGUAS E DOS VENTOS SP – SICREDI FORÇA DOS VENTOS SP CNPJ Nº 57.647.653/0001 -84 CALL NOTICE FOR MEETINGS 202 2 The President of the Board of Directors Administration of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Region of Flores, Waters and Ventos SP – Sicredi Força dos Ventos SP, in the use of the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, calls on the associated members of the Agencies listed below, which on December 31, 2021, totaled 10,296 (ten thousand two hundred and ninety-six) members, to participate in the Core Assemblies, to be held on 03/16/2022, at 7:00 pm (nineteen hours), in a single call, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members from each Center. Date Participating Agencies 03/16/202 2 Amparo, Artur Nogueira, Ceaflor, Holambra, Jaguariúna, Santo Antonio de Posse and Veiling. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the Cooperative Headquarters, located at Av. Lauro de Carvalho, nº 872, Centro, in this city, to all members, simultaneously, using the Belonging Tool * accessed through the website www.sicredi.com .br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2021, comprising: a) report management; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) income statement; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Allocation of results 3. Election of Core Delegates 4. Election of members of the Board of Directors. 5. Setting the value of fees for the President, attendance cards/honoraries for Vice-President and members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board. 6. Allocation of resources coming from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund. 7. Approval of the Electoral Code, Membership Regulations, Sicredi Internal Regulations. 8. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Jaguariúna, March 8, 202 2 Information classification: Internal use OBSERVATIONS: 1 The Assembly will be held in DIGITAL format, based on art. 43-A of Law 5764/71, as well as in DREI Normative Instruction No. 81, of June 10 2020, and due to public health protection measures, in view of the recommendations issued by the competent authorities to avoid crowds, ensuring the safety and health of our associates and employees. 2 *Instructions for participating and voting in the videoconference on the indicated date and time: instructions and the link to access the Assembly will be made available to members, via e-mail or Whats App, accessible via browser or application smartphone compatible with IOS and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Associates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action through audio, video and chat, in real time. To access, simply click on the link and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 3 The Assembly will be recorded electronically.