COOPERAWVADECREDHO.SAVINGSANDINVESHMENTODARESDASDASAGUASEDOSVENTOSSP—SKREmFOREADOSVENTOSSP CNPJN°52642653/000L84-EDHALDECONVOCAEAO ASSHWBLHAGERALORMNAWAEEXTRAORWNAWA The President of the Board of Directors of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Flores Region, of A guas e dos Ventos SP — Sicredi Forca dos Ventos SP, in the use of the attributions which Article 14 of the Bylaws confers upon it, summons the core delegates elected in the respective Assemblies, which on December 31, 2019 totaled 20 (twenty), to meet at an ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING, to be held on May 21, 2020, 'as1lJ:00 (fourteen) hours. in first convocation, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates; in the second call, at 15:00 (fifteen) hours, with the presence of half of the delegates plus one; and, in the third and last call, at 16:00 (sixteen) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates, the Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the Cooperative's headquarters. located at Av. Lauro de Carvalho, n.“ 872, Centro, in this city, for all delegates, simultaneously, through video conferencing', using the Microsoft Teams platform, to deliberate on the following: ORDER OF THE DAY IN REGIME ORDINARY 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2019, comprising: a) management report: b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding year; W) statement of results; d) opinion of the Supervisory Board; e) audit opinion. 2. Allocation of results. 3. Allocation of resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund. IN EXTRADRDINARY REGIME 1, Broad and general reform, and consolidation of the Cooperative's Social Statute, in its full version, aiming to adapt Sicredi's systemic structure. 2, Registration of the Electoral Code, Regulation of Membership and Internal Regulations of Sicredi. 0 President notes that. In compliance with the provisions of paragraph Linico of article 13 of the Bylaws, the matters on the agenda were previously discussed in the communities in which the cooperative operates, through meetings coordinated by the President, held at: Date Time Agencies Local 17 /02/2020 191130 A. Nogueira Espaco Alternativa — R, Joao Pulz, 415. Centro 02/18/2020 7:30 pm Holambra e Ceaflor Clube da T. Age — R. Muscarias, 99 — M. das Flores 02/19/2020 7:30 pm Jaguaridna Sicredi Headquarters — Av. Lauro de Carval | Forga dos Ventos OBSERVATIONS 1. The proposed Bylaws, Sicredi Internal Regulations, Electoral Code and Regulations for the Pertencer Program are available at the Cooperative's headquarters, at branches or via digital means upon request. 2. The Assembly will be held in a format digital, due to public health protection measures, in view of the recommendations issued by the competent authorities to avoid crowds, guaranteeing the safety and health of our associates and collaborators. 3.*instructions for participation and voting in the videoconference on the date and time indicated: Instructions and a link to access the General Assembly will be made available to Delegates, via e-mail or WhatsApp, accessible via browser or smartphone application Compatible with I05 and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action through audio, video and chat, in real time. To access, simply click on the link and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 72.5 Sicredi