_______________________ Theodorus Breg President - Força dos Ventos CooperativeCREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF THE REGION OF FLORES, DAS WATERS AND VENTOS SP – SICREDI FORÇA DOS VENTOS SP CNPJ Nº 57.647.653/0001-84 CALL NOTICE - ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY The President of the Board of Directors of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Region of Flores, Waters and Ventos SP – Sicredi Força dos Ventos SP, in the use of the powers conferred on it by the article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the core delegates, which on this date total 20 (twenty), to meet at an ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 14, 2021, at 2:00 pm (fourteen) hours, in first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates; in second call, at 15:00 (fifteen) hours, with the presence of half of the delegates plus one; and, in the third and final call, at 4:00 pm (sixteen) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the Cooperative Headquarters, located at Av. Lauro de Carvalho, nº 872, Centro, in this city, for all members, simultaneously, using the Microsoft Teams* platform, to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2020, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) demonstrative the result; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Allocation of the result 3. Election of the members of the Fiscal Council 4. Setting the value of fees for the members of the Fiscal Council 5. Allocation of resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund. 6. Update of the Compliance Policy and Internal Audit Standard 7. Other matters Jaguariúna, March 19, 2021 OBSERVATIONS: 1 - The Meeting will be held in DIGITAL format, with based on art. 43-A of Law 5764/71, as well as in DREI Normative Instruction No. 81, of June 10, 2020, and due to public health protection measures, in view of the recommendations issued by the competent authorities to avoid crowds , ensuring the safety and health of our associates and employees. 2 - *Instructions for participating and voting in the videoconference on the indicated date and time: instructions and the link to access the Assembly will be made available to Delegates General, via email or WhatsApp, accessible via browser or smartphone application compatible with IOS and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action through audio, video and chat, in real time. To access, simply click on the link and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 3 - The Assembly will be recorded electronically.