BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF THE REGION OF FLORES, DAS WATERS AND VENTOS SP – Sicredi Força dos Ventos SP CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name , Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1º The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Region of Flores, Waters and Winds SP – Sicredi Força dos Ventos SP, established at the general meeting of 5 February 1987, originally called Cooperative of Economy and Mutual Credit of Employees in Cooperatives of the Holambra Region - CREDIHOLAMBRA, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, having: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction at Avenida Lauro de Carvalho, nº 872, Centro, in the city of Jaguariúna, CEP 13910-025 in this State of São Paulo; II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, limited to the municipalities of Águas de Lindóia, Amparo, Artur Nogueira, Cosmópolis, Holambra, Jaguariúna, Lindóia, Monte Alegre do Sul, Pedreira, Santo Antônio de Posse, Serra Negra and Help, everyone in the State of São Paulo; III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2 The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the States of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro - Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all persons legal in which these participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and expression of the respective Central in the conclave and core assemblies with members, of which it must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 3 The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicred i brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - with systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs , in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - da official regulations and internal regulations of Sicredi. § 4 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to being subject to other sanctions provided for by law. § 5º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, aiming to assist it to remedy irregularities or in the event of a risk to the solidity of the company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 6 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 7º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 8 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 9 The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own standards, and may examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports that occur of verification. § 10. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidor es, in accordance with the regulations own, form a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11. Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 12. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and investment clubs, and any other financial product and service and not financial, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their objective the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as make use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicred i, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. CHAPTER III MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws and fulfill the conditions here may be members of the Cooperative. established and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; IV - other legal entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they are established; V - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2 To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose admission, complete the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º The following will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative and will not be able to remain there, in addition to the hypotheses provided for in the legislation: I - anyone who may compete with the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration and/or other information that could change the conditions of association. IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi. XI - anyone who has registration information irregular or outdated. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items III and IV of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to the statutes and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures to interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Society or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling obligations and other commitments assumed with or through the cooperative; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and in the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests. VII- keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The associates, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative vis-à-vis third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and for the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the shutdown. § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits to the Reserves account Banking and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Infringement of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative within 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - Violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as an administrative, fiscal or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days he or she can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in his/her opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Council of Administration, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may file an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counted from the communication of elimination, observing art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. Article the case, preventively from its functions, while the investigation continues, informing you of the verifications carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days you can present your reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period of time or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on The elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. E xclusion from membership occurs through: I - Dissolution of the legal entity; II - Death of the individual; III - Loss of unfulfilled civil capacity; IV - Failure to meet the statutory requirements for entry or permanence in cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. §1 Change of address after joining will not be considered as loss of statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of this Statute will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. Share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 10,000.00 (ten thousand reais), and must be paid in current currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. § 3º The request for reinstatement of the dismissed member, eliminates undermined or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may delegate to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, on an extraordinary basis, members subscribe and pay in new shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital contributions, except as described in § 2 of this article, monthly subscription and payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. . § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic record, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deducting losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 9 The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting on same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its compliance with all limits assets required by current legislation. § 10. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, from the date of first release until the day they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 11. The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 9 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the conditions are considered financial and assets of the Cooperative, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 12. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining its member status, with the minimum membership fees established in § 2 of this article. § 13. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit a request to the Board of Directors to withdraw up to 40% of their share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, the member may redeem up to 40% of the value of the share capital, maintaining their membership status, with the minimum number of shares established. in § 2 of this article. § 14. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 15. If the Cooperative has, on December 31 of the previous year, reserves constituted that correspond to at least 100% (one hundred percent) of the capital requirements established by the Central Bank of Brazil on this same base date, excluding the values ​​of contributions from the Guarantee Funds, of any modality, the Board of Directors may, exceptionally, authorize partial redemption in fortuitous cases or force majeure, as well as making the criteria for partial withdrawal established in §§ more flexible. 12, 13 and 14 above, maintaining the status of associate with the minimum quotas established in § 2 of this article. § 16. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote the immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 17. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which it occurred his dismissal from the membership. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 18. The return referred to in §§ 12, 13, 14 and 15, if approved by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, will be made at the discretion of the collegiate, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative , respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with installments of payment by the Cooperative also being permitted. § 19. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 20. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by it may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with its respective quotas, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital quotas, maintaining its membership status with the established minimum quotas. in § 2 of this article. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will make any and all decisions in the interest of the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. § 1 The rendering of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of components of the administrative and fiscal councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general assembly, must be previously assessed in core assemblies, which may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. § 2 The other matters on the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly in Delegate Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform the members later. § 4º The coordination of the core assemblies will be the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if they are unable to do so, by whomever he indicates. Art. 14. General meetings (ordinary and/or extraordinary) will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice published in a newspaper and posted in appropriate locations in the most frequently frequented premises by members, in addition to communication through physical circulars or through electronic. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights , in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as per order the case); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the address of the place where it will be held, which, unless there is a justified reason, will be the registered office; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications and, in the case of a Statute reform, an indication of the matter; IV - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; V - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 The General Assemblies referred to in the caput may be held in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, as long as this condition is included in the call notice; § 5 Assemblies that are held remotely must guarantee effective participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, the associates, grouped by nuclei, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of delegate vacancies among the nuclei will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 40 (forty) nuclei, observing its own regulations; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in article t. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in person or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elective positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in the regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold a general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for new date, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. General meetings will be chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-Chairman or, in his absence, by another advisor. administration, which will be the secretary of the work. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or other member chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the convocation. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his alternate or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, held by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except regarding matters within the exclusive competence of the assembly extraordinary general, for which the votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates present are required. Single paragraph. The deliberations and other substantial events at the assemblies will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing continuity on a date later, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the continuation of the session, respecting the legal quorum, both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the order of the day stated in the notice, everything duly recorded in minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not make it possible to meet the deadline legal requirement for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The ordinary general assembly will be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the administrative bodies , accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; w) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixing, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses for the members of the Councils; V - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, and will be conducted by an Electoral Commission constituted specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, assured its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same board. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegial deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 07 (seven) advisors, among them, a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the application and exercise of the position, without prejudice to meeting the additional requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any member entity of Sicredi, or even, with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold shares in a company that, due to its activities, is considered a competitor of any of the entities members of Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; IV - not have held or be holding a political-party position or function in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or at another Sicre di entity, in the last 2 (two) exercises; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have a negative record in any database; VIII - not have, through intent or fault, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or wear and tear on Sicredi’s image in any of Sicredi’s member entities; IX- have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (being an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) nucleus assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated, in the immediately preceding exercise, or participate in the courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the system, according to the nature of the position or the function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at directors during the period of their mandate, up to 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have time availability to fully comply with statutory and legal responsibilities, and accumulation with another position or function (elective or not) that requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative is prohibited; XII - be exercising or have exercised, as holder or substitute, the function of Program Center Coordinator Belongs to the Cooperative where you are a member, or has held a statutory position in the cooperative; XIII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation. XIV - not negatively expose, or denigrate, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by the entities that are part of it of Sicredi; XV - have not suffered sanction for a gravity in nature, pursuant to the Sicredi Internal Regulations. XVI - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is the majority shareholder or administrator, the provision of services or the supply of products being considered habitual which, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months; § 1 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 2 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with a renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, since the election, the full monitoring of the remaining participation of those who succeeded. § 3 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 4 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the following meeting must first elect new occupant(s) to said position(s), confirming or not the designated person(s), and the elected person(s) will serve the remaining time of the mandate(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. If the number of Council members is reduced to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 5 The following constitute, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in the elected position: I - the loss of the quality of associate; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 3 (three) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity forming part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; V - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. VI - licenses, except for health treatment, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; a) Upon leave for health treatment, for President, Vice-President and members of the Board of Directors Executive, the continuity of payment of fees in addition to social security and the maintenance of current benefits during the period of leave of up to 24 months is ensured, which may be extended at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 6 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political-party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the convention of the party in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 7 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood as: I - Elective position - those political people invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of a party executive – people who, affiliated with a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors governs it meets according to the following rules: I - it meets, on an ordinary monthly basis, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the call of its President, the majority of the Board itself, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of interest. self-interest, or that concern your relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities, benefits and individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VI - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the company's real estate Cooperative, classified as non-current; VIII - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the Company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and determine the application of applicable penalties; X - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XI - deliberate on the convening of a general meeting; XII - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, meeting the social purposes of the Cooperative and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIII - authorize the change of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of the other facilities or branches of the Cooperative, inside or outside of the host municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XIV - comply with and enforce this Statute, the legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XV – express opinions on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVI - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVII - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in this Statute Social and relevant legislation, until further deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The Chairman of the Board is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the Cooperative activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit to the Board of Directors proposals for internal regulations, observing systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, to the Board of Directors for consideration, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of active Cooper, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as a representative institutional institution of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever it indicates; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for practice of acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the company, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, being an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, a Director of Operations and a Business Director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the Directors' term of office or vacancy, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2. In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. § 4 The Cooperative will be presented, in Court or outside it, actively and passively, except as provided for in section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 5 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed-economy companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must have the conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and X III to XVI, as well as §1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 6 and 7 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V - complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. It is up to Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - operationally manage the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic state -financial of the company, in compliance with the provisions of these Bylaws; III - appoint attorneys-in-fact, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a fixed period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for a period indefinite validity. IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, subject to the provisions in this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to the completion of such businesses; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring its execution monthly, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for Sicredi's legislation and internal norms; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or aid, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities related to the ordinary administration of the Cooperative. XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. To the members of the Board of Directors The Executive is responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicre di na’s cooperative development and sustainability programs area of ​​operation of the Cooperative; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the annual planning of the Cooperative Cooperative, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations of systemic rules and regulations. II - The Director of Operations: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the annual planning of the service Cooperative; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any member of the Executive Board is prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, the granting of guarantees, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of this Statute Social, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 5, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will indicate the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the terms of office of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Councilors of Administration and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause damage to the Company, will respond directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages; § 2º A Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or individually, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board of Directors and Directors whose actions or omissions, in accordance with paragraph above, have as a consequence any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and an equal number of substitutes, all associated with individuals, elected by the general assembly, observing, with regard to the conditions and requirements for the candidacy and exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVI, of this Statute. § 1 The election of the members of the Fiscal Council requires complete slate(s), independent(s) and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, with an indication of the order of substitute, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 1 of art. 27 of this Statute; § 2 The member of the Supervisory Board must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is the majority shareholder or administrator, the provision of services being considered habitual or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, have a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months. § 3 The term of office will be 02 (two) years, with renewal of at least 2 (two) members at each election, 1 (one) being effective and 1 (one) alternate. § 4 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences in the Meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The meetings of the Fiscal Council may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 40. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective councilors will be replaced by alternates, in accordance with the order established in the election minutes. § 1 In the event of 4 (four) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to fill them appropriately, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2º Applies to the Council Tax the vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 5, of this Statute, it is up to the Board itself to assess the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political-party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Among others Attributions arising from legislation, this Statute and systemic regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and exercise monitoring of its concession; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to obtain advice from internal auditors and external parties to provide information necessary for the performance of their functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Center's auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, regarding strategic and corporate matters of interest to all the individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, warning about any irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - convene the general assembly, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which results from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Council of Administration and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, a timely report to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including at the judicial level, to promote the accountability of directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year coincides with the calendar year. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one being on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surpluses determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 65% (sixty-five percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and meet the development of the Cooperative; II - 05% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended for providing assistance to members, their family members and Cooperative employees; III - The remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Bylaws, they must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares - shares of the members' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining the mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible between the associates. CHAPTER willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held in period of no less than 6 (six) months, are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER current. CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52. The cooperative has legitimacy extraordinary autonomous competitor to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with the legislation and cooperative principles, consulted, when applicable, the social bodies. Art. 54. The change in the composition of the Board of Directors, governed by Art. 27, will come into force from the 2022 Assembly (inclusive). Afterwards, with the exception of the President and Vice-President, all those elected will be called “advisors”, without distinction between the positions of effective and substitutes. WE DECLARE FOR DUE PURPOSES THAT THE PRESENT STATUTE IS A FAITHFUL AND AUTHENTIC COPY OF THE PRESENT STATEMENT DRAWN UP IN THE BOOK OF MINUTES OF MEETINGS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF THE REGION OF FLOR ES, DAS ÁGUAS E DOS VENTOS SP – SICREDI FORÇA DOS VENTOS SP. Jaguariúna, May 21, 2020. Theodorus Breg Irene Catharina Maria Vermeulen President Vice-President