JUCESP PROTOCOL 2' 2.650.650/23-0 llllllllllllllllWl||l1|lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllLLLLLLLL BYLAWS OF CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATITIA OF THE REGION OF FLORES, DAS AGUAS AND VENTOS SP — SICREDI FOR QA OF THE WINDS Si-'*7 CHAPTER I DENOMINATION, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Segio I Name, Health, Forum, A950 Area and Duration Term Art. 1° The Credit Cooperative. Savings and investment da Regiéo das Flores, Aguas e dos Ventos SP — Sicredi Forga dos Ventos, established at the general meeting of February 5, 1987, originally called Cooperativa de Economia e Crédito ML'Ituo dos Funcionérios em Cooperative da Regiéo de Holambra - CREDIHOLAMBRA, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws. having: I — Health, administration and legal jurisdiction in Av Lauro de Carvalho, n° 872, Centre, in the city of Jaguariﬁna, CEP 13910-025, in the State of Sao Paulo; ll - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, limited to the Aguas de Lindoia municipalities. Amparo, Artur Nogueira, Cosmépolis, Holambra, Jaguariﬂna, Lindoia, Monte Alegre do Sul, Pedreira, Santo Antonio de Posse, Serra Negra and Socorro, all in the State of San Paulo. Ill - indefinite duration. Segio ll Integration to Sicredi Art. 2° The Company, by joining Cooperative Central Credit, Savings and Investment of the States of Parana, S50 Paulo and Rio de Janeiro - Central I (5 Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the . . EEAKEGLIA-' Iauenao ue Notes and an 9.94/5.5 &:T4vL1a Ua"U13@l§€"a_DL uariun other affiliates, Sicredi - System rt-r Credit Cnop=.rative,b also governed by its regulations. §1" The Cooperative Credit System — Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives. their -'espa.«:tivas Cooperatives Centralais, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederagéo Sicredi), Sicredi Parlicipagoes S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Educational Development Foundation and of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundagéo Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores (SFG). §2° The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when is within the operational limits established by the legislation in force; §3° Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: l- the majority of its members, to become independent; ll - of the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. §4° In the hypotheses provided for in paragraphs 2'' and 3° above, participation and expression of the respective Center at all stages of the procedure. §5° The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - systemic norms on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of programs Grow and Belong, in accordance with specific regulations; ll - relative limits 2': solid assets and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally deﬁned by the System; Ill - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. §6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in the Sicredi Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. /W) Frauen“ ,9 , r,/9”“ C_'"7:'h'as e mums agoyr;-Q! ELVBH; Lagﬁ “”§@'3§elv;w.v.ag_ua2 qna V . H/I §7° A Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System in terms of current legislation and internal regulations. §8° Affiliation to the Central matters. automatically. in Cooperative solidarity, within the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its heritage ' in relation Other Papers; ll - obligations contracted by movements in the bank reserve account. accessed through Banco Sicredi. and the use of liquidity lines; Ill - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. §9° Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in §8° of this anigo, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated with other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. §10° The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. §119 The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities. and maintain the availability of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward it to it. if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports resulting from the verification. §12°. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8th and 9th of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to Sicredi Fundos funds Guarantors, in accordance with their own regulations, operate a system of mutual guarantees. ,) / / / Culﬂ mu. . —. dI1Bl.’v 4 . rnqrtf/{ca confune dz /_ i2EIﬁUlEHUC1MIE.R§ I2 satuhra guarisna ia re ll; esel ct dun é. SE l§ Yahelvéo -‘ca Nulas bﬂe Pvaluslo as Lamas e mums ﬁutantit I pr Erase: arlu . Ipll Ewnagl km 1312.14! IIICAWO. 11 a Ii: 1 1:’: ..a Lgm /hf» ._)a ua.'u|na@‘iDeuaL1 a u,a,=,u_r*-é,c,r2m_ :2: §13°. A Central Sicredi PRISP/RJ as a regulator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. Representation powers are granted, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. §14°. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II ; = MN: CORPORATE OBJECT 1 Art. 3° The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: 5 3 I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including Ea _ f 3:;-3; housing financing, in accordance with legislation and regulation 35 A ’ gs 3; current; “g §‘ . . . . . . . . 9 2 S: 5:" ll - provide its associates, including those with agreements with public or private entities, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, insurance plans pensions, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial product and service and not financial. not prohibited by current legislation; Ill - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as an object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. §1 Final paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic norms, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System. like this make use of the services of the Central and other entities within Sicredl, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. CHAPTER Ill OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition 9 Admission Conditions Art. 5 Persons who agree with this Articles of Association and fulfill the conditions may be members of the Cooperative. here established and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; ll - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; Ill - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - natural persons who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its associates, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and entities depersonalized individuals who have a link with the cooperative or one of its members, regardless of where they choose to establish themselves; VI - parents, spouse or partner, living, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; For all cooperatives: §1° The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (vlnte). §2° To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, disregarding the number of minimum shares provided for in §2° of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute.“ gl E 2 2‘! 3 S‘ .5. :- Q: 33 . 5; to the . :' Hz a s= 3. -, 3 3 zﬁg _ . ,, 5 'g 1' . :l o C‘ 3 g1 E u (V p. .3 Sign J §3° They will not be admitted to the r1-Jadrn social ria Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there. hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2 of art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities. exercises effective competition with the Cooperative’s main activities; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of Cooperativ or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost employment with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature is Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative. or through it. for more \ than 180 days; _ Ex % .. VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; AND?! g .. ca VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent information. or untrue, including It is through a public or private document, or omitting registration information 23% 3 and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; .2G; u. -- = IX - anyone who moves values ​​arising from activities considered irregular or illegal, within the terms of the legislation in force; $'‘:'; .» ... X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services §'§'g_ contracted at Sicredi; .§I3::::is _ XI - anyone who has irregular registration information or outdated. §4° For the purposes of the provisions of items |Ve V of an. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor and institutional relationships are considered links. associations and kinship. Section ll) Rights \\ Art. 6“ S50 rights of associates I - participate in meetings and assemblies of the nucleus and, through a delegate, in general assemblies. discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed II — vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in applicable legislation, in this statute and \ , in internal regulations: . V 3% III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperativa T} elou by the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in 3', Egg official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the ' 3 _,'-g _ Cooperative and or by the System; 5 Ex‘ " La IV - propose statutory changes to the Board of Directors and internal 3 g regulations. as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or g E 5"' EN of Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity found in the / E - 3' management of the Society or non-infringement — statute committed by E': associate; S @ V - propose to the Board of Directors, in advance, 3 publication of the notice 5 5: .3. calling for the assembly, upon request from 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of E E5: .3 interest to the Company to be discussed and resolved at a meeting :3; general EI; 3;-—5i: N VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, §:§_ approved by the General Assembly; E92 VII - have access. examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII - resign from the Cooperative when it suits him. S9950 III Duties Art. 7'' The duties of associates: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with Coops-ratwa, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay in capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out its financial operations in general; V — not practice, inside and outside the Cooperative, an activity that characterizes discrimination of any order; IE ‘ A A d ICIMDLRS - - VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, W. . . . .. Polmical neutrality to always bear in mind that cooperation is in the Interest: . __ IF . . . . . W 'common, overlapping with the interests and undivided; «; W‘ 533 5, .‘: _ -‘ \-cu: A VII - keep registration information updated. § § :1 EM‘ ,1 __ : Paragraph (mico. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of the associate implies » 3 E‘: §‘ on the early maturity of all its obligations under £5 21 £5‘ §4, . . . . . . , - ﬂ 5 '° "~' Du Cooperatuva or with other entities that are part of Slcredu, the center of the sf :_y.__.._. \ Cooperativa. _ 2 - 5 §-*3 ., Section IV g .- \ :'=,-= g I -=- '.5 Responsibilities ' 3 = _ o -. VIE': ,=. Art. 8" The associates, notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 2° and 3° of this article, '2 I i E . . . . _ . .= .. respond subsidially for the obligations contracted by Cooperatlva:11 3.5:: “‘ against third parties, up to the limit of the value of the shares—parties paid in and by ;» ~g . . . on.“ value of the premiums earned in these operations proportionally to yours. _'§_z‘ - participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, kg \ _..¢..;._: 1 with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal. elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. §1° Responsibility of the members, in the form of the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required. except in the cases set out in §§ 2 and 3 below. §2° Associates are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares. for the obligations undertaken by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check Clearing Service and 1 1 « Other Papers, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of Liquidity lines. §3° Unlimited. with their personal resources, associates who, through action or omission, willful misconduct, cause material damage or delay will be liable. the Cooperative. S9950 V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9° The associate's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be 3 E denied. AND _. 3 0 Subsegio ll gg €33: gf at E ' E l Enminagao gg ,-,=_~§§ gj “ H .. .z.,, E‘ Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Advice from ‘ﬁg .3 ,7‘ \ V . . . . - 1": Administration of the Cooperative and the reason must appear in its records, in Q,' 3 _-_-2 virtue of: 35$,' ':39: 1%, . _ . . ~ L' 3.3': - I - Infraction is legislation in VIQOI' or the Statute, when its §“- 2,] ; _;j g excluséog 3 2' 'E73 ' 1* J 3:; ' ll - if the member fails to comply punctually the obligations and other f gy' =, commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy and :1 E 2% 3] nine) days; { 3- 'E5: III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; SE-3 IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, «V X __ _ . as a board member, auditor or director. §1° May be eliminated. Also, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative. §2° The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member to within 15 (fifteen) days, present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in its opinion, disqualify the infraction on which the notification was based. The Board of Directors. within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, it will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. §3° The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member associated with the indication of the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. §4° The eliminated member may file an appeal within a period of 15 (fifteen) .4‘ at 2 ._g , 1 ‘L . stub fig days, counting from the communication of the elimination, observing the art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect the first general meeting to be held. E 3,_§ §5° When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item II of -.,—_"'3$§ sf caput of this clause, the Board of Directors, after the infractions have been investigated, §."':: §'* which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated offender, and may suspend or remove him, as the case may be. preventively from his functions, _' _ § while the investigation continues. giving him knowledge of the checks § ;§~?_u And carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days he can present his reasons for defense, \' '3 33; which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or in its next ‘ § gég \ rig meeting. And b 53.? ‘\k g[ §6° In the case of § 5'’, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, e.g. after analysis 3 w ""1 '.71 of these, depending on the severity of the infraction, the offender may emerge, E :M. L|EJl convene a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on the 5:: elimination or general meeting to deliberate on the dismissal, depending on the §;.§ case. 5' 5” ‘W3. (§7 "The decision to Elimination of the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection Ill Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; ll - death of the individual; Ill - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for entry or permanence in the cooperative provided for in art. 5°, §3°, of this Statute. §1° The iteration of the conditions for subsequent admission is association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. §2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER w D0 SHARE CAPITAL: I=ORMACTION AND WITHDRAWAL COUNTS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and varies according to the number of share shares subscribed, prevailing, as at a minimum, the amount is R$ 10,000.00 (ten thousand reais), which must be paid in current currency. \ §1° The share capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one real). m.bI uari ii UUI1 ‘ - ‘ -. §2° Upon joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and inlegalize, at least, 20 (twenty) shares. AND . And §3° The request for reinstatement of the dismissed member. eiiminated or excluded $5; Es‘ ) And the social framework will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, and may ff ;. 3;? : delegate to the Executive Board, which is responsible for defining the number of shares at E 5; .§ ‘.., be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. .5 _'i E § §4° The general assembly. upon proposal of the Board of Directors of "3 Cooperative, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, 3 3:; including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit. '1 may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, the associates subscribe and pay in new shares of capital, defining. including, the form, the \°",'5'u_ value and the periodicity of subscriptions and payments. §5° In capital payments, except as described in § 2° of this article, subscription and payment will be permitted monthly, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. §6° The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Q4 Registration Form or in its respective electronic record. observing that otfx C no member may hold more than 1/3 (urn (ergo) of the total shares. cm.» Nnlanni i ' (M an... M §7° The shares of the paid-in capital r- They always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, being Prohibits giving them as a guarantee to other associates or third parties. §8° Shares of capital are unseizable. Email taquanunaraiabey -xaouanuna.com.br §9° In cases of dismissal, elimination or exciuséo, the capital will be refunded, §§§ paid in, added the surpluses or deducted the losses of § 3. corresponding fiscal year, observed the provisions of Chapter IX of this . _, “And Bylaws. 5: 1O.9—The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty): 5 days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year gg 'ji —' 5 in which the dismissal occurred, allowing the installment of the 5 .§ payment by the Cooperative, to begin within the same period . within 5 (five) years, “ 1 ‘l 3 _ ‘ at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering conditions 3; , , gv‘-‘ ﬁnancial and patrimonial assets of the Cooperative. respecting the E parameters; g5 specials the level of reserves of the Society and the framing this in all § ‘; :3 with asset limits required by current legislation. 3‘ ‘°’ §11‘—‘. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using a price index official q E. 3 g to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. \\/I \, A §12‘-’. 0 Share Capital it may be refunded to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 109 of this article is held, provided that: I - the partial results of the financial year in which the termination occurred presents surpluses; ll - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and Ill - the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all the patrimonial limits required by current legislation. (// §139. The associate, a consumptive person, who reach the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and. cumulatively, be part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retire due to disability. You may, exceptionally, submit to the Administrative Council a request for the withdrawal of part of your share capital, maintaining your status as an associate, with the minimum shareholdings established in § 2 of this article. (ulegm um . mam» Cooperative for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit to the Board of Directors requesting withdrawal of up to 40% of its share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, the member may redeem up to 40% of the value of the share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum membership fees established in § 2 of this article. ,, .,_¢;_, §159. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit to the Board of Directors a request for the redemption of part of his share capital, maintaining his member status, with the minimum shares " 1,! 2 established in § 2° of this article. -i. §169 The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by members more flexible, including for for the purpose of responding to unforeseen circumstances, force majeure or other special situation, 3 .22 maintaining the status of associate with the minimum of shares -E M §§ established in §2° of this article. fag §179. In cases of member's termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its 3. I 33 § share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; _,l‘ those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the associated E‘:-_-3 has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the 'E-5% Society. ‘jﬁg _ _ 5%-=¢.*, ‘W §18‘—% With the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurring, the - /‘K The responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the financial year in which the member left the membership. In the event of a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the member terminated, the Cooperative may cover it through the means permitted in the regulations. petty legal. §19E. The return referred to in §§ 13, 14, 15 and 16, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be at the discretion of this body, E-maiLgqyg4r;.inaflabeliamaauauuna with inconsiderations, for this purpose. the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all the patrimonial limits required by the legislation in force, with payment in installments being also accepted by the Cooperative. §20‘—’. The capital shares form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the obligations of the Cooperative. associated with third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. §219. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative. the amounts owed by that party may be offset. at the discretion of the cooperative, with its respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital shares, maintaining its membership status with the minimum shares established in § 2° of this article. §22. The capital balances of Remuneration of capital or surpluses not sought by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. chapter of the GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY $9950 I General Provisions Art. interest of the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if they are absent or disagree. §1° The rendering of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of the proceeds and the election of members of the administrative and fiscal councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously assessed in meetings of directors: _ ( 1 Tahalléa 31¢ Nnlas E (I? P l-_-Stu de LeUas\p Tllulos VAI canfme (IE seimro 4 MITEIHICIIAILR5 am: Yvevizan Carnal ll T! DI Iilfﬁwi, antenna‘: ; yr ' ' n a n 'f'haia'i3:§3§§35vnL1ni I 4 , /4 ' E-marl auuar-unaatatmora uariu V §2° The other matters objected to by the general assembly may be deliberated directly in Assemblies of Delegates, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. , §3° When matters are discussed only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will subsequently inform its members. §4° Coordination of the core assemblies will be the President of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, or the Vice-President, or. furthermore, if these are not possible, by whomever that person indicates. §5° General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the President of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's electronic website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet= §1° The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council. or. following a request not responded to within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the notice. MD I ' V ‘-= .3 §2° The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: , :3 .. __ an I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of _" And General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, depending on the case); ' § :is' 5.5 " . ll - the day and time of the assembly. as well as the way it will be carried out; “'«"-_;-“:53; .\J, \» 'mm: . Ill - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the access mode to the means of communication made available for participation of associates, in if a meeting is held remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of installation quorum; delegate or other member chosen at the time, with the main stakeholders in the call forming part of the Board. General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to it, in which case the Center will be represented by its alternate or other appointed associate, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, held by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except for matters falling within the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which votes of 2/ 3 (two thirds) of delegates present. Paragraph (mica. The deliberations and other substantial occurrences in the assemblies will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of the work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do - Io. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place of continuation of the session, respecting the legal quorum, so at the opening begins with the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda set out in the notice. everything duly recorded in minutes. Final paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time period between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Segﬁo ll Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. Ordinary general meeting must be held once a year, within the legal period. deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - rendering of accounts of the administration bodies, accompanied by the opinion of the Supervisory Board and independent audit report, comprising: a) management report; ) El Id. §.;.. .3 . 2:: 3 3 a..«.... ._. , one; " I ma; .. ; .. .. V; .33: .. .r.. 2* 'J' L. La :5“! 3"“ 3.1 no - - g] c: 1 .. 3, '+4 ~— :4 //§;.V._ mu 5-"*1 :2 Q 1*; —, g . D 3; , if »,=,,' . 5..., o_, z?' E-£1a \I|.|£I9|-1a\nun.;r. b) balance sheets of the two semesters of the correspondent, exer.:IL.io; c) statement of surpluses or losses. those arising from the insufficiency of contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for the employee funds; III - election of the members of the management and fiscal councils; |V - fixing, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees. attendance records and bonuses from Board members; V — any matters of social interest. including those proposed in the form of art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Paragraph (mice. The ﬂaxation of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations. applicable to the Cooperative. S9950 Ill Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Ironic paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I ~ reform of the Bylaws; ll - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. Yabauan V on “. " 3 a== ’; ....¢ m 1» 451353 5 H emu 3 ., e....._. - ~ """'i - .; '"-4 " ‘ 3 uE§ .» ,...-.¢ 5 5| :7... 33 ueuua .15.»: Q. 3 5 5 53 } IAJ E§4!_ In /5 5!‘ -= /2:3: .,. 3..., .. "5? ' "Q 3;“ 3... 2:. B 5 .1 :3 a-—, 2°’; E‘ .i I‘ u. ‘I is#:£llII|1M,'l0. A-V mica I n' in] a Iii desellala zo2§,nan1s: --' = }4.63. E-mail anuna Mahalia-:_=.v cAI=iTuI.c Vl ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code -'. approved by the General Assembly, being endorsed by an Elected Committee created speciﬁcally for this purpose, at each request, by decision of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, its autonomy and independence are assured, operationally reestablishing itself at the same time. collegiate. $4? cAI=Title VII §‘_;§ ADMINISTRATION 819950 I 332.5 Administrative Council E Art. 27. The Cooperative will have an Administrative Council. collegial deliberation body. It is composed of individual members, including 7 (seven) advisors. a President and a Vice-President, \ constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the assistance of others complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the board of directors, supervisory board or the company. $52 Cooperative Executive Board; § §:§ ll - upon taking office in the position for which he was elected. not be a spouse or EA-E "partner", nor have a relationship beyond the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Boards of Administration and Tax and Executive Board; ii; I oz 3.4; 1 III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that. due to its activities, is considered as a competitor of any of the entities that are part of Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; IV - not have held or be holding a political-partisan position or function in the last civil year; / '7 /,3, V - meet the professional qualification required for the position, under the terms of the Current legislation and in accordance with systemic standards. Compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - there has not been any use of 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or at another entity of Sicredi, in the last 2 (two) financial years; VII - not be liable, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or having a negative record in any databases; VIII - not having, through malice or fault, committed irreligiousness that has caused any harm or wear and tear is Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX - Operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two financial years (being an active member) and participated in, at least 2 (two) core assemblies. in the last 3 (three) exercises; X - have participated in the immediately previous exercise. or participate in courses and other training and retraining events scheduled by the System, according to the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of their mandate, up to the deadline of 1 (one ) year after taking office; XI - have time availability to fully comply with the statutory and legal responsibilities. Accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with responsibility - in the Cooperative is prohibited; XII - be exercising or have exercised, as holder or substitute, the role of NL’Ic|eo Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or hold a statutory position in the cooperative; XIII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XIV - do not expose negatively, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by entities that are part of Sicredi; XV - neo has suffered Sangéo by infragetty grassime nature, pursuant to the Sicredi Internal Regulations. XVI - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products for 1 Cooperative, either as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he is a partner, considering the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, duration of more than to 2 (two) months. §1° When analyzing the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. §2° You will not be able to apply for social positions previously employees dismissed for just cause, nor directors and officers who are subject to internal investigation to determine violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or that. for the same reasons, have been dismissed or resigned from the position to which they were elected. §3° The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the whole number must be considered immediately superior, and those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, as permitted by the latter. since the election. full monitoring of the remaining participation of those who happened. §4° Possession of the document(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. §5° In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. Verifying the absences of the President and Vice-President at the same time, the Council will appoint substitutes, among its components. §6° In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the counselors, among them. designate successor,) _/,,/ izrogia Ion 50 /%&w.m=°e °"::::::.: W“ §'g'5.§":"}aa?a'§'3 :§3:os.vAL1 A ;.§,ss. (s), with the first assertion that follows electing new occupant(s) (5) for said position(s). whether or not the designated person(s) is confirmed, and the elected person(s) will serve the remaining time of the mandate(s) of the President and/or the Vice-President succeeded (st. Reducing If the number of Board members is less than 3 (three), with the exception of the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining period of management. §7° Constitute. among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of membership status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 3 (three) consecutive meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; Ill - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with the legislation in force; IV - the sponsor, as party or proxy. of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the term of office. except for those that aim to protect the exercise of their own mandate; V - the holder becomes ineligible under the regulations in force, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. VI - licenses, except for health treatment, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; a) Upon removal for health treatment, for the President, Vice-President and members of the Executive Board, the continuity of payment of fees in a complementary manner to social security and the maintenance of current benefits during the period of leave of up to 24 months is ensured, which may be extended to discretion of the Board of Directors. §8° In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political-partisan position, he must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confined, under penalty of vacancy in the position. §9" For the purposes of this Statute, a political-party position is understood as: i (:7 QB!-3.' te nigh rgim' don fé. EﬂaiI.muar;gg§@mpahja:a- ruuna.c = _ ., , m -9 BA :1: .. . .a on , , .- - a.~.= us: ....u°: ...-u. zmo u.-.. .45 -.9 .—....m <2 -- cm 3'... u.-... < c. E...' E Z .. ﬁ'Sm:--Z ...... g.o, I - Post elective - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic). in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of a party executive — people who, affiliated with a given party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the general party are elected in the party's "convention", assuming the functions of President § Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; Ill - Appointed, designated or delegated position — those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 23. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, on an ordinary monthly basis, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the call of its President, the majority of its own Collegiate, or even at the request of the Supervisory Board; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; Ill - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be included in wings. approved and signed by the members present. The contents of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. §1° The convocation of Meetings of the Board of Directors will preferably be held in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication permitted. §2° No advisor may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of personal interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner (a) or employees. §3° Meetings of the Board of Directors They may be in-person, remotely, or in-person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. " .,-3 -. 355 . ... Us vll E “ 2 3 31}; 5. ’ "I-;,.-‘ 5‘ ‘L ; 3 -'2 2‘: ,3 S: 5 2‘? 4 3a ' 5 9 \ u 5\ % 'S a\ °:'.\ 3' 3 .5' 5x tux re-Ites of the leg-islagéo and of this Statute, Art. 29. In addition to other assign;r'aes Observing the expected detail, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, 0 in systemic regulations: I - ﬁx the strategic direction of the Coopeiativa and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of Di Cooperativa in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; .1mm. ' _ rv Hana: Executive office II I S‘ III - approve regulations within its competence. which cannot contradict the 93. _§ D ' provisions of systemic regulations; ‘ ' lid IV - appoint and dismiss members of the Board of Directors Executive, as well as clarifying its duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, 3,3,5 in compliance with the provisions contained in the statute; §§ '3 __;g‘‘ ‘g - I u.‘ 3 - gr 3 3 V — register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended for financing the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with the legislation in force; VIII — forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of Cooperative assets, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate. classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the scope of the Company, including those that are forwarded by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council. and determine the application of applicable penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; as r oe Proleslo‘ YO: .M.:UIaus Trm/Izan ace} Tabeuac. ug- E".'J.FL|J@@una@x s properties of XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; nature is not coo complementary or accessory, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV - to artorize the alteration of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, u closure, the transfer or change of addresses of the other depairs of cooperati or outside the headquarters, under the terms current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute. the legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XVI — express an opinion on the administration report and financial statements; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; M iWm_Ca'1;;l=ras e mum; Pfﬂifica ranfar N d DE ainiiiilillz. 4.<.br I ..... .. -.., . .. XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offer or distribution of 55; bonuses. prizes or other advantages aimed at earning 2: . . . . -...... members or the increase in share capital by the number of members; AND; =. ‘no: §|,I§qLaguanun Lcom XX - deliberate on specific issues of interest to the Cooperative, well Takzalnéo me. Now ( an F . r as about the omitted cases and all other allocations provided for in this -I ;' 3“ <5. Esclatulo Social a na relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation of the If‘ general assembly. if it is 0 case. { . 4,‘; '5-,j=; " “.;; W‘ Final paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other I s"=‘; members for functions of an auxiliary nature. deﬁned for each one, with ‘ §L_'§ recorded in the minutes. the relevant tasks. 533;"; Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following \““""3‘::_ \’ duties. observing the details provided for in internal regulations of the Sicredi: I — monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable norms, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; ll - Lead the implementation of programs for organizing Sicredi's social framework, development and management, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; I .~ I" I - L3’ 7 {/ III - monitor the execution of the related work plans, speciﬁcally, to the development of the Cooperative: IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors. systemic guidelines observed; V - take the Aaminnstragéo Council's assessment of the work plan. annual or multi-annual, as well as budgetary proposals, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, the general assembly, an annual report on Cooperaliva's operations and activities, accompanied by the balance sheet. of the demonstration of leftovers and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and independent auditors, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII — select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in accordance with the special powers of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System. and also at general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever he/she indicates; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, convening and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the dependencies of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of the servants provided to the members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or by the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drafting of the minutes of the general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his absences. suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of companies in which the Cooperative participates. \ / on Lam-us n ii r 5‘ “ , “’II1"£a‘I“/’ ‘ “ethane: Tr,,a,, 5 Ha an'un “ 3 _lIan1a uanu - E mbr I A.‘ Vsegio Ii Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by one: Executive Board. who is responsible for carrying out actions and operations related to the purposes of society's interest. composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, including an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, including an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. §1° The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy of the position of the Directors, and will exercise the functions provided for in these Bylaws. §2° In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the position not occupied will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. u rgszogrlfi um I 0 SELII §3° The term of office will be 4 (four) years. being that those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be -s..~;_§ reappointed in the same way and term or. at any time, dismissed by the 4: , LIE Board of Directors. 5 3"': §4° Possession of the document(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization E E-E-g of the name(s) by the regulatory body. g E § Only the Cooperative will be represented, in or out of court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30. obligatorily: j, } _"§ I - by 2 (two) Directors together: 3} § :§ ll - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with powers:_<,b, _,_; ' specific, duly constituted; ' ml III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. §6° Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I — before federal, state and public bodies municipalities, local authorities and mixed-economy companies; ) / / E«maI|‘ Iaauariunaﬂlabeisaoiaauanuna.com r ll - in the granting of documents for the Company's representation in court, including the appointment of representatives and lawyers; III - Upon signing the Form or Registration Data and Admission Proposal, Registration Form. Registration, Opening/Closing Current and Savings Accounts and signing the Member Termination. IV - in license oases of less than 120 (eight and twenty) days that imply the lack of plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be qualified to hold the position of Director, candidates must possess the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, as well as 0 of § 1; ll - obey the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a higher education degree; Plras u rukuos / IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each person, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V — meet complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 34. Gabe is the Executive Director, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: ?ahoIiau de Nouns a (la Frolustc d reseltalu in: ft. 25.1mm?) sunsm E E-man. IallLIanunaﬁlaneliaoiaauaruunacorvl.br I I - operationally manage the Cooperative, meeting its purpose, the faiths; guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; ‘V ‘ :3 iial a min a , hnra 13 ll - contract obligations, compromise. sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic-financial state of society. observing the provisions of this Statute; Ill - appoint attorneys, fixing them. in a skillful mandate instrument, assignments. responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly. within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a determined period, except those that contemplate the powers of the / ,3 _Eﬂ11Ch9Z0. which may be granted to them for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and Iomar any other measures with a view to 9- implementing and executing the acquisition, alienation, donation or encumbrance, depending on the case, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative. observing the provisions of this Statute; V — authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets classified as circulating to the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to implementing such businesses; VI - prepare strategic planning and financial, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services. routinely checking the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine work plans and respective budgets. monitoring its execution on a monthly basis, providing information on the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX — decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and guidelines of Audltoria and Internal Controls, aiming at safe and respect is Iegislagéo and to the normatives we start from Sicredi; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable property, contribution or aid, regardless of benefit and value, in accordance with the guidelines ﬁxed by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII — be responsible for all other activities related to the ordinary administration of the Cooperative; XIV — Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the liquidation or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. ’) Art. 35. Members of the Executive Board are aware of the following duties, among others. observing § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Administrative and Fiscal Councils. subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the company’s expansion plans and activities Cooperative, according to market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) be responsible for managing the Cooperative’s performance and monitoring its results. striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, according to the planning economic and ﬁnancial of the Cooperative; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budgetary proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. ll - The Director of Operations a) be responsible for the analyzes management on financial statements, accounting and tax controls and 05 performance indicators of the Cooperative; ‘ « 3 *5 3 £ ,. b) respond for internal contuoles activities. compliance and risks, as well as directing measures in the supervision process and ensuring compliance with internal standards and legislation; q c) respond, formally, to the responses indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. Ill - To the Business Director: s \ a) develop and respond to the implementation of theoretical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its requirements; d) be responsible for the execution of the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) respond. formally, for the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. §1° It is prohibited for any of the members of the Executive Board to practice acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of guarantees, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted. on behalf of the Cooperative, provided that relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. §2 "The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, but may, however, meet in person or remotely, by physical or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within its competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalization of meeting. §3° The deliberations and other substantive events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7°, items III to VI of these Bylaws, 0 Council of 0 5' 9- § _ 1, .3; , ﬁg : _ an 1 Aurrurrcrnrm I 4 ‘ M cam Nahum «r . ,. dn mu out! 2 setmru s Tuuras Ci [Gil rngrifi Kll 29 q;tg Wzfresln as Lalva gia rg aquarx I 0 Eﬂiltﬁﬁlﬂ. Autentita A/iresente co dun fé. no some in Tabeﬁio MB Mains P de/ :9: iaal i Ii: a resent a 2022 , time 13:35: .V )4. - K \ Eirnav: 4gg§ruuBM@uab§nasnaguazuuna" Management will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled. certain that in this case, the respective functions will be carried out by other Directors. D Sole paragraph. In case of vacancy of all positions in the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to exercise the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Administrative Councilors and Directors, with no personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management. until they are fully completed. 1 illiiillllltmgiﬁ §1° The Administrators who give cause is an insufficiency of liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties. determine a loss to the Company, they will be liable directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages. Tzbeliio do N 1 A /_\ ti dc tun arr gr an Carrbal U.-it §2° The Cooperative. through its social bodies, jointly or separately, from now on authorized, will promptly take the appropriate measures. including at the judicial level, to promote the accountability of QQCQJQQLQH Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in form 3-§ of the previous paragraph. result in any of the gg results referred to therein. -g{ E E ‘ CHAPTER vm I g D0 FISCAL COUNCIL ~_,,,,‘,,; Art. as. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and x ' 3*" “' in detail by a Fiscal Council. of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all associated individuals elected by the general assembly, observing, regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVI, of this Statute. §1° The election of the members of the Fiscal Council requires complete slate(s), independent(s) and unlinked (5) from the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2° of art. 27 of this Statute. l ' /5}] §2" The member of the Supervisory Board must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he is a partner. considered habitual the provision of services or the production of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months. §3° The term of office will be 2 (two years. §4° The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. §5° The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on a regular basis every month. extraordinarily. whenever neoesserious. deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. §1° In its first meeting will be chosen from among its effective members. a coordinator, responsible for calling meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. §2° go: 90 4-9’ Meetings will still be possible. be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. §3° Absent the coordinator and/or the secretary. Substitutes will be chosen at that time. §4° The Fiscal Council meetings may be held in person, remotely, or in person and the distance simultaneously, including by electronic means. . , \\—/ Art. 40. When absent temporarily. or in case of vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. §1° If there are 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board. the President of the Board of Directors will convene the general meeting | must be completed within 30 (thirty) days. §2° The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27. § 7°, of this Statute, It is up to the Board itself to assess the justifications for the absences of its members. ' §3° In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which indication is confirmed. under penalty of vacancy from the position. Art. 41. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute of Sicredi's internal regulations, The Supervisory Board is responsible for: members, the services and acts of administrators; — my +1. ll - assiduously control financial transactions and resource availability. expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation _ ‘~35; as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; M. ‘ g III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its 1:35’ .5: °' granting; _ 3 E W IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by E Cooperativa and give an opinion on the regularity of the administration accounts and the financial statements for the financial year. preparing the respective opinion. ' §« which will contain, if applicable, the dissenting votes, as well as compliance with I. norms on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting Z :5 \ : It is the opinion of the general assembly, being able to consult internal auditors and §§:’ \§ é‘{ external auditors to provide necessary information to the performance of their E” ‘i E‘: g functions; 5 { :5; § : — -4 -=. V - gain knowledge of the internal audit reports produced by the Central's 5,_', Lg auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work. 3": 3 whose need is indicated in the documents; " 5.35 5.: Q? 52 , ,as. Q VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and the other official regulations and those of the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly. of the Board of Directors and other formally appointed systemic deliberative bodies. in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Sicredi; Vll - report the conclusions of its work to the board of directors. warning about irregularities found and, in the absence of arrangements ) / /V. , by the latter, to promptly denounce the 3rd general assembly and the Central; Vlll - examine the risk reports generated by the centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, ensuring compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each reiatbriog lX - give an opinion on the proposals of the administration bodies, to be submitted is the general meeting, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons arise. §1° The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the management of the Cooperative, whose practice results from their proven omission. carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the latter's inertia or reluctance, timely denunciation is a general meeting. §2° The Cooperative. through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take measures III E. 2 AK.‘ Tibeliéo -1: Mom. and 4. nm4.;.., d, L5,,“ _ ___ 1 G h M! , : :23.VALi ' _ applicable. including at the judicial level, to promote the accountability of U_ counselors and directors for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. E % CHAPTER IX V g DA I=|xA<;Ao in EXERCISE SOCIAL, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND _ gig". _ SOCIAL FUNDS 53:; \V f Art. 42. The social year lasts for 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. There are two balance sheets in the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 65% (sixty-eight five per corner), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and attend to the development of the Cooperative; ) '_-*/ II — 05% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families, and employees of the Cooperative and community located in its area of ​​action; Ill - recomposition of resources from the guarantee funds, in accordance with the current Iegisl; IV - the remaining balance will be at the disposal of the general assembly. p 5 destinations that you deem appropriate, complied with the provisions of § 1 of this article. §1° Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the required asset structure stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the surpluses will be available, in accordance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute. must be transformed, up to the necessary limit. in new shares of capital from members or additionally allocated to the reserve fund itself. §2° Donations without specific allocation may be allocated to the reserve fund before the calculation of mandatory allocations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will take place in proportion to the operations carried out by the members, in accordance with the calculation formula established by the general meeting. Final paragraph. It is permitted, upon decision of the general assembly. compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the previous year. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. CHAPTER the Cooperative dissolves fully: 0 .03' t t' ::s:::'.:,":;:-:= :24.vaurd son i 6 I lnnhﬂﬁdlﬁ . Eémmcaa. ﬁr: ,, . . 2923 ,z«.4,s3. I — when the general assembly so decides, provided that at least 20 (twenty) members are not willing to ensure its continuity; ll - by changing its legal form; ll - by reducing the number of members, unless of 20 (twenty), or its minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of not less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - by canceling the authorization to operate; V - by the suspension of its normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Society will comply with its own legal and regulatory standards. jun: CHAPTER The cooperative will maintain an agreement to carry out ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with current legislation. CHAPTER xu OF PROVISIONS TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL Art. 50. The 5 deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days. excluding the start day and excluding the end day. . :10 do Let-as -2 Ian Carnal ang!aa<;mL.ear:\JLa5—'°'“«-9.'/ rabenau -ae Nata: e de 9 m Man II_ -I'll-1} !" guna Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, forwarded by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days. counted from its shipment. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization from the expressed individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Cases omissions will be resolved in accordance with the legislation and cooperative principles, heard. when applicable, the social bodies. / ) ADRIANA Art. 54. The current members of the Fiscal Council will have their mandates preserved until the Ordinary General Assembly of 2023, applying the provisions changed in this body from the Ordinary General Assembly to be held in 2023. If _...T .hgOdéru V I V 044/ Irene Ciélharina Maria Verrneulen Presidents Vice-president y \ com 2023 *wvfir*9’ JU \\fufi\Iifififiulmumn\\uI\\|\\I\\\\\mm\'