1 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SICRED IF ORÇA DOS VENTO SS P This is the Annual Report of Sicredi Força dos Ventos, but this time it is different, because it is digital. 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SICRED IF ORÇA DOS VENTO SS P #FAZERDIFERENTE In 2020, we started the year with a purpose of #DoingDifferent from previous years. After all, we went through an atypical period and had to adapt to the “new normal.” However, amid the difficulties, our team managed to exceed expectations and create new perspectives. That's why we created #FazerDiferente, because only with the help of each member of the team for the greater good were we able to innovate and reinvent ourselves, so that you, the member, could have the best experience of being part of this team. THAT IN 2021 YOU CAN ALSO #DODIFFERENTLY! 3 Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos VentosThe Annual Report is a publication of the actions of the Cooperativa Sicredi Força dos Ventos SP Production: Communication and Marketing Advisory communication and Marketing: Anderson Orsini Communication and Marketing Assistant: Bruno Silva2020 - Annual Digital Edition sEXPEDIENTE 4Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos sicredi.com.br/forcadosventosRe06 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 20 OCTOBER ROSA10 COOPERATIVISM 25 CREDIT 34 INSURANCE08 GOVERNANCE 22 OUR AGENCIES16 YOUTH COMMITTEE 30 PAYMENT METHODS 38 OUR NUMBERS07 AREA OF ACTIVITY 21 RAIFFEISEN TROPHY14 PROGRAMS 27 INVESTMENT 36 LOCAL ECONOMY09 HISTORY 24 EXPANSION19 WOMEN'S COMMITTEE 32 PEOPLE 39 SERVICE NETWORKSUMMARY 5 Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos VentosAs President, I cannot fail to emphasize the chaos that the coronavirus crisis is generating in the world. After all, Covid-19 has a different and painful prescription for it to be avoided: social isolation. The insecurity of not knowing when everything will end, the home office and stress are causing thousands of people to feel anxious about the future. However, let's face one fact: the crisis arrived and took everyone by surprise! But the way everyone knew how to deal with the chaos made some businesses stand out and grow even during the crisis. And do you know what's behind these companies that have grown? I can tell you: brilliant minds, confident leaders and people who had the emotional intelligence to not let themselves be contaminated with thoughts negatives. It was this strength that we as a team had. We adapted to lockdowns and working from home and managed to have a surprising reaction in business in the second half of the year, a decisive factor for our success in 2020. The cooperative is now in a moment of balance with a more stable team with little turnover. Consequence of employee productivity and engagement in agencies. Despite the difficulties, the board and team managed to achieve great mobilization between committees and coordinators. A STRONG TEAM IS A TEAM THAT CAN OVERCOME THEMSELVES AMID DIFFICULTIES FOR THE GREATER GOOD. I would like to express my sincere thanks for the commitment of everyone involved.MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 6Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos Theodorus Breg PresidentOUR AREA OF ACTIVITY 7 Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos Theodorus Breg President12PERFORMANCE IN 01 Headquarters Jaguariúna06 Holambra VeilingSanto Agencies Antônio de Posse Artur Nogueira JaguariúnaCeaflor02 Business OfficesComing soon! Amparo CosmópolisCitiesSanto Antônio de PosseBOARD OF DIRECTORSFISCAL COUNCIL DIRECTORSAt the General Assembly, the Core Coordinators elect the members of the Board of Directors. The body is responsible for establishing the general and strategic orientation and objectives of the Cooperative, in addition to supervising its management, so that its actions meet the interests of members.During the General Assembly, The members of the Fiscal Council, a body that monitors compliance with the administration's legal and statutory duties, are also elected. The Sicredi Força dos Ventos Board of Directors is appointed by the Board of Directors and is responsible for the executive management of the business. Board of Directors From left. to say. Renato França Santiago, Olivia Marques Lima, Eddy Afono Sleutjes, Irene Vermeulen (vice-president), Theodorus Breg (president), Arien Van Vliet, Luis Marcelo Multini.Fiscal Council left. to say: Alfredo Geraldo Gemma Bongers, Paulo Cesar Cordeiro Hossri, João Carlos Maioli Clara, Kellen van Mierlo de Souza Vermeulen, Almir André de Almeida. Board of Directors From left. to say. Zilda Soares de Araújo (Executive Director), Theodorus Breg (President), Fernando Follman Pasquim (Operations Director) 8GOVERNANCEDigital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos9PRIORITIES IN 202034 YEARS OF HISTORY Relationship Campaigns, actions, financial products and strengthening ties with our associates.Sustainability 2020 required us to adapt and reinvent ourselves to seek good results. Employees At this time of pandemic, we prioritize physical/mental well-being at work or in the home office. Our Força dos Ventos Cooperative celebrates 34 years of history in 2021! It all started in the city of Holambra, in 1987. With each year of work, we grew stronger to embrace the significant growth that we enjoy today for the benefit of the population. Such a partnership It allowed us to be part of a national system, with specialized companies and financial instruments capable of insuring our members. The cooperative principle aims to make our associates increasingly engaged with our business. For this reason, in 2020, considered one of the most turbulent and unstable, we decided to get closer to our members, creating a joint partnership, where everyone enjoys good results, with the member being the center of the cooperative. And, from this way, using what is yours in the most efficient and well-advised way. Our commitment is reinforced daily in this intention of partnership and reliability between our team and associates. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos10MORE MEMBERS AT THE ASSEMBLIES PARTICIPATION IN THE 2020 ASSEMBLIESIn February 2020, the Força dos Ventos assemblies were held, with the presentation of the numbers and results for the year 2019. With the record of growth effective in member participation, agendas and themes that guided decisions were voted on. It is through participation in assemblies that the member plays a leading role in the Cooperative and actively participates in giving opinions and voting on decisions about the business and the community. Associates voting at the 2020 Assembly, in Jaguariúna Associates at the 2020 assembly in Santo Antônio de Posse UA2020 Possession and Veiling GeneralArtur Nogueira4 965 81 8.39NúcleosBase AssociatesAssociates PresentBase Present %People Present 114 9 1983 189 9.53 209 Jaguariúna 1 759 133 17.52 152 6 1614 166 10.28 177 20 5321 569 UA 6522019 105Members PresentPeople Present 141 169 183 59 70 79 88 412 482UAComparison of Present Members 2020 x 2010 Possession and VeilingArtur Nogueira81Associates Present 2020 189 Jaguariúna 133 166105Associates Present 2019 169 59 79-22.85 11.83 125.42 110.12%COOPERATIVISMO Presents 2020 x 2019Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Strength dos VentosFORMATION GROW DELEGATE TRAINING When assuming a position in the corporate governance structure, it is necessary to be aware of the rights and duties, in addition to the responsibilities that are assigned to the position. With the aim of spreading cooperative and credit cooperative culture among our members, we developed the Crescer Program. Through it, we offer training that expands understanding of the functioning of a cooperative society and the role of members in business governance, helping to train the Cooperative's future leaders.COOPERATIVISM 11 Employees with a certificate of completion of the Crescer Training. In the center, André Assis, Cooperative Development ManagerIn February 2020, we had the special presence of André Alves de Assis, Development Manager of Central PR/SP/RJ, at our institution. André taught the Crescer Program training to all Força dos Ventos employees, causing intense participation and transforming participants into agents who promote all this knowledge. The event was extremely important for employees to learn about the program's concepts, understanding more specifically about a cooperative society for generating business. To clarify this matter with emphasis on our coordinators, in December, we invited speaker Euder Lopes to teach online the topic “The Role of a Delegate in a Cooperative”. Annual report Digital - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos VentosThis meeting's main objective was to engage and motivate participants in their leadership roles, so that they know how to deal with the different situations within the role they perform, as well as C Day was created in 2009, with the aim of encouraging voluntary social responsibility actions, putting cooperative values ​​and principles into practice. The year 2020 was probably the year in which cooperation was most present in people's lives and in different places. Many professionals, in addition to the health sector, were on the front line to help the entire society that was confined due to social isolation. We understand that these professionals, also Collaborators in the distribution of flowers in Artur Nogueira, are able to mobilize the associates who are part of their respective groups. “C-DAY” DAY TO COOPERATE needed recognition and, as a form of gratitude for the services provided, they deserved a tribute. We celebrated C Day through a joint action carried out between Sicredi Força dos Ventos and Veiling Holambra. The action was called Solidarity Flower, and its objective was to deliver a flower to each of these professionals. The action took place in the cities of Holambra, Jaguariúna, Santo Antônio de Posse and Artur Nogueira. All those who risked their lives for the benefit of the population received our tribute. 12CLICK ON THE ICON AND WATCH A SPECIAL VIDEO OF THE FLOWER SOLIDARITY! Erica Duarte, Credit Cycle Assistant Sicredi Força dos Ventos IN TOTAL, MORE THAN 1,000 FLOWERS WERE DELIVERED, GENERATING GREAT REPERCUSSION THROUGHOUT THE REGION. 13The characteristics and values ​​of each person have been the focus of discussions for business success. After all, for good team management, everyone must be in harmony. It is important to emphasize that we are thinking and creative beings, endowed with the ability to solve problems and innovate. This does not applies only to Wind Force, but also everywhere. After all, employees are the driving force of the business, and their participation in the institution's deliberative and decision-making processes is essential. It is necessary to invest in training the cooperative staff, aiming to guide them to assume leadership roles, being able to solve problems and develop innovative projects. With this in mind, the Force of the Winds, together with the APL consultancy, developed Semear – Cooperative Leaders Development Program. The project began in September and lasted 4 months. During this period, the cooperative members were divided between members of the Women and Youth Committees, Delegates, Collaborators and Associates, exploring 4 blocks that made up the program: Leadership, Management, Innovation and Hands-on. At the end, participants were divided into groups and had the task of presenting projects related to the areas of Culture, Management, Leadership, Environment, Health and Social, which could be put into practice and applied for the benefit of the Cooperative. Great ideas and solutions were presented, which showed a different and promising vision of the future for the Cooperative. All projects were judged by a panel of experts, highlighting two projects that were chosen to be put into practice in 2021. 14Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos VentosThe need to work cooperativism directly with the reality of each agency caused the Semear Program to split into a new stage, called Semeando. For two months, Força dos Ventos used Artur Nogueira's agency as a pilot to test this new program. The starting point of Semeando is to understand FINANCIAL EDUCATION STARTS EARLY One of the most talked about topics in 2020 was certainly: Financial Education! The recent crisis caused by the coronavirus has further highlighted how It is important to have personal financial education, as many have suffered major impacts on their income. This practice should begin in childhood, with small actions in children's daily lives, teaching them how to plan and deal with their SOWING FRUITSPROGRAMS 15which is the cooperative profile of each of the collaborators and especially of the Cooperative's members. Next, a cooperative diagnosis of the agency as a whole is made using a mix of techniques. From that understanding, it became possible for everyone to work together to develop an action plan that seeks to introduce cooperative practices and actions, focusing on our fundamentals to improve relationships, propagate sustainability and increase the generation of business within the agencies. With the success of Semeando at Artur Nogueira's agency, the next step is to make the project viable in the Cooperative's other agencies. ENEF WEEK spent, examining all alternatives and discovering what is best. In this sense, the National Financial Education Week, also called ENEF Week, took place between the 23rd and 29th of November 2020. During the event, content, information and tips were shared that could help people manage money intelligently and responsible, understanding a little more about finances. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos VentosThe Young Force of the Winds Committee, composed of young members of Cooperative, it played an important role in 2020, holding virtual meetings throughout the year to discuss important issues present in our daily lives and also planning and executing social actions with the community. Racism, inequality, inclusion and the role of cooperativism as an agent of transformation were just some of the topics addressed and addressed by the Committee during the year. Committee members visiting Lar Feliz in Jaguariúna 16 YOUNG PEOPLE WITH THEIR HANDS YOUNG COMMITTEE The themes They brought a new look to issues that are so present in everyone's lives and especially how each person can act in different situations. OUR YOUNG PEOPLE THINKING ABOUT A COOPERATIVIST TOMORROW.Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos VentosIn addition to the tips shared through Força dos Ventos social networks, we took advantage of the moment to carry out actions in conjunction with the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis - Financial Education Program of Sicredi, teaching about economics within the schools with children and teenagers. Employees and volunteers from agencies in Artur Nogueira, Holambra and Santo Antônio de Posse proposed to be part of this program, bringing relevant content to students. The content was also presented to some of our associates, highlighting Supermercado Makin, Sítio R.M Flores de Holambra, Colégio Anglo de Artur Nogueira and Cooperposse. In total, 349 people attended the lectures. A SUSTAINABLE WORLD NEEDS EDUCATION FINANCIAL.Employees Luis Gustavo and Airton Gonçalves at the Cooperposse recycling cooperative 17Headquarters employees involved in Brincação, an action by the Youth Committee In the various meetings held by the Youth Committee throughout the year and their discussions in favor of solutions and innovations, the project ““ Just kidding.” Held in October, the action mobilized, in addition to the Committee, cooperative members from other cities to collect and distribute toys, books and games to entities that serve young people and children. The “collective effort” collected around 700 items that were donated to Lar Feliz in Jaguariúna and Lar AÇÃO E PLAY Agência de Artur Nogueira collected many items for the Mãe Maria campaign in Santo Antônio de Posse. This action also involved associates who provided space that became collection points, such as Supermercado Buona Gente, Supermercado Santo Anjo, Lá no Armazém Empório, Posto Galeria, Agropecuária Bom Tempo, Posse Imóveis, Supermercado Makin and Magazine Alcione and also members who are part of Artur Nogueira's Pura Amizade Futebol Clube team. 18 With the aim of providing a happier Christmas, Força dos Ventos, in partnership with members of Artur Nogueira's Pura Amizade F.C. football team, collected and sent letters from needy children containing various requests for gifts to Santa Claus. Collaborators contributed by donating a large amount of giftsMAGIC CHRISTMAS AND COOPERATION YOUNG COMMITTEE The action only took place thanks to members of the Cooperative, who collected the letters and sent them to the community. This was a way of showing that helping others is a gift and that solidarity should be part of our daily lives. WE HAD HUGE PARTICIPATION FROM EMPLOYEES, SHOWING THAT COOPERATING WITH OTHERS IS POSSIBLE AND IMPORTANT FOR A BETTER AND HAPPIER WORLD.Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos19 With the theme “Women who fly”, the fourth edition of Summit Mulher connected women and proposed reflection on female protagonism. During the online meeting, held in November for members of the Women's Committees, held in 24 of the 31 credit cooperatives operating in Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, examples and attitudes that impact society were discussed, mainly those that involve organizations for gender equality, in fulfillment of the fifth Sustainable Development Goal (SDG), proposed by the United Nations (UN). The initiative aimed to rethink cultural construction in the environments where women are inserted and included The actress Maria Paula was one of the guests at Summit Mulher 2020SUMMIT MULHERCOMITÊ MULHER lectures and presentations on the importance of developing solutions that will positively impact the public's daily lives feminine. During the event, topics such as the importance of involving men and boys in a new society were also discussed, through a global effort. THE WOMEN'S COMMITTEES DEVELOPED BY THE SICREDI COOPERATIVES IN THE STATES OF PARANÁ, SÃO PAULO AND RIO DE JANEIRO HAVE MORE THAN 670 MEMBERS. Força dos Ventos Woman Committee and President Theo Breg Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos20DIVING FROM YOUR HEART IS GOOD! PINK OCTOBER In celebration of Pink October, Força dos Ventos sought to engage employees with the aim of creating mobilization and awareness the importance of prevention and self-examination of women in the fight against breast cancer. The initiative aimed to find donors within the Cooperative who were willing to cut their hair and send them to an institution that makes and provides wigs for women facing cancer treatment. The action began with the distribution of explanatory and preventive material about the Click on the image to the side and watch the Action! Bruna Teles, Bruna Ferreira, Luciane Paixão, Adriana Gasparotto, Juliana Martinelli and cabeleireiros.breast cancer for all Força dos Ventos employees, along with an invitation to women who would like to participate. In total, 4 women signed up and, in addition to the haircut carried out by a professional, they received a day of beauty as a reward to create their new look. According to Bruna Teles, a volunteer collaborator, “hair is highly valued by women, it is part of their beauty, personality and makes up the body. I decided to participate to help women at such a delicate moment. And I see that, with a small gesture, I was able to help bring smiles and help make a woman feel more beautiful, secure and confident.”, she says. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos21RECOGNITION TO THOSE WHO STAND OUT RAIFFEISEN CATROPHY Every year, the involvement of Sicredi agencies with cooperativism and the development of social projects is recognized through the awarding of the Raiffeisen trophy. In 2020, it was no different and rewarded those who stood out for its actions and work based on the economic and social pillars. Roberta was awarded for her commitment to engaging the agency in the implementation of Cooperative Development programs, such as the Semeando project. Roberta Corerato, Manager of the Artur Nogueira Agency with her trophy Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos22In February, we revitalized the Força dos Ventos agency 03, located inside Cooperativa Veiling, in Santo Antônio de Posse. VEILING AGENCYOUR AGENCIESIn this way, the location gained a new visual and environmental standard, becoming more modern and comfortable for better service to the members who use it. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos23We are counting down to the Sicredi Força dos Ventos de Santo Antônio de Posse Agency gaining a new address! The new branch will have a modern and sophisticated space, so that associates can have more comfort. SANTO AGENCY ANTÔNIO DE POSSENOSOUR AGENCIES LOCATED ON ONE OF THE MAIN AVENUES IN THE CITY, THE NEW SICREDI AGENCY HAS EVERYTHING TO RAISE STRUCTURE AND SERVICE TO ANOTHER LEVEL IN THE CITY. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos Computer graphic model of the facade of the new agency.24WE ARE ARRIVING IN AMPARO AND COSMÓPOLISEXPANSION With the objective of growth and expansion of the Cooperative, a study was concluded at the end of 2020 on the feasibility of two new Windforce business offices. This study was based on information about the cities that make up our area of ​​operation but that do not yet have branches installed, and aimed to discover which of them offered the best scenarios for our expansion. After analyzing the financial and geographic data, Amparo and Cosmópolis were chosen to receive the new offices. They will offer practically all Sicredi financial products and services, differentiating itself from an agency only by the absence of cash movement within it. The openings are scheduled for April in the city of Amparo and July in the city of Cosmópolis. As a way of accelerating and optimizing the expansion process, the team that will work in Amparo is already working on prospecting new members in the city and region. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos Amparo is the 17th most developed city in the state View aerial of Cosmópolis25SICREDI AMONG THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS WITH BEST PERFORMANCE IN THE BNDES EMERGENCY LINES IN 2020CREDIT Sicredi's good performance in the credit lines made available by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) in 2020 to minimize the impacts of the crisis caused by the Covid pandemic -19 was recognized by the “Incentives for Financial Agents Project”, from the development bank. With a tradition of serving small entrepreneurs, Sicredi granted R$860 million in credit through BNDES to small businesses, in 5,230 operations. In the Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE), which served companies with revenues between R$360,000 and R$50 million with the aim of providing credit for companies' payrolls, preserving job vacancies, the following were carried out: 6,798 OPERATIONS VIA SICREDI, FINANCING R$ 171 MILLION IN SALARIES AND BENEFITTING 117 THOUSAND WORKERS. “The relationship between trust and proximity with our associates is the main factor for good performance in granting emergency lines. Furthermore, our reach, especially in small and medium-sized municipalities, as well as the use of digital channels, helped ensure that these resources reached those who needed them most, contributing to the maintenance of economic activity and the preservation of jobs in such a challenging period. for the country”, explains Gustavo Freitas, Executive Director of Credit at Sicredi. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos26In March, the world began to face one of the most difficult moments ever experienced in our recent history. In Brazil it was no different. The country entered quarantine due to the Covid-19 pandemic and only essential services remained in operation, which caused a shock to the flower and plant market, the focus of the region. To cooperate with associates who were affected by this measure and help them overcome this adversity, the Force of the Winds created “Sicredi Coopera”. This is an emergency line of credit with very low rates never used by the institution, aimed exclusively at economic assistance and overcoming. With long-term installments and an extended grace period, almost R$20,000,000.00 in credit was released, which served as support for members directly affected and who suffered losses. In addition to helping them, Sicredi Coopera served to strengthen further partnership relations between the Cooperative and its members. SICREDI COOPERATES AT THE RIGHT TIMECRÉDITORDigital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos27AT SICREDI, INVESTMENT IS RELIABLEINVESTMENT Even with a challenging economic scenario, in September, Sicredi surpassed the mark of more than R$ 100 billion in deposits and investment funds, the which represents a growth of 43% compared to the amount recorded in December 2019. The increase was driven by deposits to term, which totaled a total value of approximately R$54 billion, followed by savings deposit (R$20.7 billion), demand deposit (R$20.7 billion), retail fund portfolio (R$3, 8 billion) and Agribusiness Letters of Credit (LCA, R$ 2.2 billion) Still in comparison with the performance seen in December 2019, the 115% growth in investments in LCA and the 29% increase in number of investors linked to the institution. The result expresses the confidence that the members have in the Sicredi Cooperatives, located in 23 states of the country and in the Federal District, in their solidity and is also a reflection of their commitment to improving the financial health of this public, with guidance and safe investment offers. 2.2 BI Agribusiness Letters of Credit (LCA)20.7 BI Demand deposit20.7 BI Savings deposit Retail fund portfolio3.8 BI54 BI Term deposit Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos28SAVING AND EARN IN HOLAMBRA To encourage its members' habit of saving, in 2020 Sicredi promoted the fifth edition of the Save and Win Without Stopping Promotion in the states of Paraná, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and distributed R$2.5 million in prizes, which highest value in five editions of the campaign. Participation is always very simple: for every R$100.00 deposit into savings, the member receives a number. In 2020, we reached an important milestone for our Cooperative. We reached the impressive number of 100 million reais invested in Sicredinvest by our members. A record for the Force of the Winds, achieved in the middle of the pandemic that the region and the world was going through. This milestone in fundraising crowns the solidity and confidence of members in the Sicredi System and our Cooperative, in addition to the dedication of employees. OF COURSE WE WON'T STOP HERE! Despite the historic milestone, our goal is to continue breaking new records. To achieve this, we will continue working to offer the best financial solutions to Força dos Ventos associates.FORÇA DOS VENTOS REACHES THE MARK OF R$100,000,000.00IN SICREDINVESTIMENTO Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos29 Associate of Holambra, winner of a prize of R$5,000.00luck to compete. During the promotion, weekly draws of R$5,000 were held, a special draw of R$500,000 in October, and the final prize of R$1 million in December. In 2020, we had an associated Força dos Ventos was included in one of the weekly draws, which won a prize of R$5,000.00. The lucky one was Aparecida Oliveira de Araújo, who saved at her agency in the city of Holambra. IN 2021, COME SAVE WITH US AND COMPETITION TOO. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos30PAY, RECEIVE AND TRANSFER WITH PIX AT ANY TIME AND WITHOUT FEES!PAYMENT METHODS Sicredi members from all over Brazil can use Pix, the Bank's instant payment system Central do Brasil that came to bring more convenience to Brazilians. Anyone who has already registered their keys can use the solution, which allows them to pay, receive and transfer amounts at any time of the day, seven days a week. Those who have not registered can register a Pix key at any time (CPF/CNPJ, email, cell phone or random key), through the Sicredi app. Pix is ​​not a new application, but a solution that is available within the Sicredi and Woop applications Sicredi (100% digital account of the institution). In a simple and practical way, members can now transfer, pay or receive amounts immediately. Financial transactions can be made using a registered Pix key, via QR Code, via Pix Copia e Cola or using bank details, as is currently done. EVEN WITH THIS OPTION, SICREDI ASSOCIATES CONTINUE TO RELY ON THE PAYMENT METHODS THEY ALREADY KNOW AND CAN CHOOSE WHICH OF THEM BEST MEETS THEIR NEEDS. NEEDS. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos 31CARD MACHINES RELY ON PIX TO RECEIVE PAYMENT METHODS OF PAYMENT Sicredi expanded Pix, the Central Bank's new instant payments system, to its card machines, as another receipt option for its associates. Sicredi card machines are already used by more than 180,000 individual microentrepreneurs (MEI), legal entities (PJ) and individuals. (PF), and help to economically develop the regions where the institution is present. Pix allows you to pay, receive and transfer amounts at any time of the day, including weekends. “The solution reinforces our commitment to offering greater ease, control and financial organization for the member, who now has another receiving alternative, making our card machine even more complete”, says Cidmar Stoffel, Executive Director of Products and business of Sicredi. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos32In 2020, we carried out internal campaigns that motivated and challenged Força dos Ventos employees to constantly seek Agência da Posse receiving the trophy UP7INVESTING IN PEOPLE IS THE SURE OF RESULTS IN NUMBERS OF PEOPLE good results. Additionally, agencies and employees who completed their goals were rewarded with prizes and trophies. Campaigns were always defined and based on the objectives of the Cooperative throughout the year, divided proportionally for each agency so that everyone knew their objectives and could achieve them.Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos33Agência Ceaflor receiving the trophy 80 at AlvoThis motivation and team unity resulted in 87% of what was proposed in the “UP7 campaign”, which aimed to reach R$ 7.7 million in credits released in the month of July/2020, and more than 100% of the target in the “Campaign 80 no Alvo'', which had as The objective is to release R$80 million in commercial credit this year. We closed 2020 with R$81 million released to our members. A demonstration that anything is possible as long as you work hard. In 2021, we will have more campaigns to reap positive results.CASA SURADA, JANELA PREMIADASEGUROS In December 2020, we started the Janela Premiada Força dos Ventos Campaign. An action that aims to increase the generation of business related to home insurance. The dynamics of the campaign aims to reward the member who takes out home insurance. An itinerant house was built, which visits a different agency monthly. Every member who takes out home insurance during the period in which the “home” is at the agency gains the right to choose a window that may contain gifts. In addition to being a way of strengthening ties between members and the Cooperative, this is a way of raising awareness of always keeping our heritage protected. With the encouragement of this action, we passed the mark of 50 new residential insurance policies implemented since December 2020. 34 Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos 35 36I COOPERATE WITH THE LOCAL ECONOMYLOCAL ECONOMY The operations of Força dos Ventos and especially Sicredi are marked by the promotion of the local economy and support for entrepreneurs, who are suffering from the effects of the economic downturn caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The entrepreneur is fundamental in the generation of jobs, income and movement of economy. For this reason, to encourage consumption in local commerce, Sicredi launched the “I Cooperate with the Local Economy” movement, which encourages people to buy from small businesses in their neighborhoods and regions. We believe in the power of cooperation for the good of the economy. During the pandemic, even in the midst of difficulties, it became evident how fundamental it is to help people and businesses. In this way, the movement aims to invite entrepreneurs to be the project ambassadors, assuming an intercooperation role and acting as catalysts. They are also responsible for illustrating our campaign at a regional level. Due to its success, the movement, which would last a specific period, became permanent throughout the Sicredi system. Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos Bar da Amizade Jaguariúna Marinho Lalla Ceaflor37 sicredi.com.br / SAC - 0800 724 7220 / Hearing or speech impaired - 0800 724 0525. Ombudsman - 0800 646 2519. The growth of people and local businesses has always been our commitment. Therefore, our resources are reinvested in the region, and can be returned as credit for members, entrepreneurs and rural producers or even as support for social projects. Now is the time to cooperate even more with the economic and social development of our region. We created the I cooperate with the local economy movement, an initiative to boost entrepreneurs here. Also participate, consuming products and services from businesses near you. Do you know since when it was essential to cooperate with the local economy? For us, since always. I COOPERATE WITH THE LOCAL ECONOMY Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos38OUR NUMBERS 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 20202019 2020 2020 20202017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos9 .6409.2759.0278.595 39.347.265 96.04412.132.857 265,62347,671,463 127,266,26513,726,580 1,177,63454,584,478 167,085,32015,521,667 1,161,57981,435,977 963.9865.063.805 5,780,135 7,047,023 8,506,645 Members Credit Portfolio Managed Resources Results Net Equity Share Capital 39 SERVICE NETWORK Headquarters Força dos Ventos Avenida Lauro de Carvalho, 872 Centro - Jaguariúna/SPFone: 19 3877-5197 Agency 02 - Holambra Av. Rota dos Imigrantes, 443Centro - Holambra/SPFone: 19 3808-4544 Agency 03 - Veiling Rodovia SP 107, KM 27, S/NSanto Antônio de Posse/SPFone: 19 3902-9020 Agency 04 - Santo Antônio de Posse Rua Francisco Glicério, 62Centro - Santo Antônio de Posse/SPFone: 19 3896-1031 Agency 05 - Artur Nogueira Av. Duque de Caxias, 1570Centro - Artur Nogueira/SPFone: 19 3877-4506 Agency 06 - Jaguariúna Av. Lauro de Carvalho, 872Centro - Jaguariúna/SPFone: 19 3837-2930 Agency 07 - Ceaflor Rodovia SP 107 - Mayor Aziz Lian, km 29, 3 - Borda da Mata neighborhoodJaguariúna/SP Digital Annual Report - Sicredi 2020 - Força dos Ventos