Classification of information: Internal Use BYLAWS OF SICREDI RECIFE - CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE – SICREDI RECIFE CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum , Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1st Sicredi Recife - Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative – Sicredi Recife, established at the general meeting of July 19, 1993, originally designated cooperative, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in Recife, located at Av. Lins Petit, 100 – Boa Vista – CEP.: 50070 -235, in this State of Pernambuco II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste, limited to the municipality Headquarters, Metropolitan Region, Zonas da Mata Norte and South, in addition to the cities of Abreu and Lima, Água Preta, Aliança, Amaraji, Araçoiaba, Barreiros, Belém de Maria, Buenos Aires, Cabo de Santo Agostinho, Camaragibe, Camutanga, Catende, Chã de Alegria, Chã Grande, Condado, Cortês, Escada, Ferreiros, Gameleira, Gloria do Goitá, Goiana, Igarassu, Ipojuca, Itamaracá, Itambé, Itaquitinga, Itapissum a, Jaboatão dos Guararapes, Jaqueira, Joaquim Nabuco, Lagoa do Itaenga, Lagoa do Carro, Macaparana, Maraial, Moreno, Olinda, Paudalho, Paulista, Pigeons, Primavera, Quipapá, Ribeirão, Rio Formoso, São Benedito do Sul, São Jose da Coroa Grande, São Lourenço da Mata, Sirinhaém, Tamandaré, Timbaúba, Tracunhaém, Vicência, Vitória de Santo Antão and Xexéu III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates with this and the others affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities tips in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Fundação de Desenvolvimento Educacional e Cultural do Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo s Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste, on its own initiative or by the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3 Disaffiliation from the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I- the majority of its members, to become independent; II - of the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. Classification of information: Internal Use §4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is ensured in all stages of the procedure. § 5º The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - with systemic standards on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Cres cer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the The requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and/or or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of credit lines liquidity; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 10 A The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 11 The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own standards, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so require, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12 The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions allocated to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. To the Central Cooperative Credit, Savings and Investment of the Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​operation, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. Classification of information: Internal Use § 14. The expression "legislation" comprises laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other product and financial and non-financial services, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, which have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as making use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community, observing internal regulations and current legislation. CHAPTER III MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws and fulfill the conditions established herein may be members of the Cooperative. and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative's area of ​​action; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; Classification of information: Internal Use V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any other its associates, regardless of where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out their activity; VII – individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities that reside or are established within the area of ​​action of the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste, For this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to the other Center are excluded. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2º of the art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - that that provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has registration information irregular or outdated. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items I V and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II Rights Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, subject to the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, these statutes and internal regulations; III - use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose statutory and regulatory changes to the Board of Directors internal affairs, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Society or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved at a general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and in events organized by it, political neutrality and always bearing in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, in accordance with the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Administration the reasons that, in its opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which This may be by physical or electronic means. Classification of information: Internal Use § 4 The eliminated member may file an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the communication of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5º When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will appear in a report specific, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days present your reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing these, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or a general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as the case may be. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from the membership occurs due to: I - dissolution of the legal person; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of this Statute will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and variable according to the number of shares - shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 10,000.00 (ten thousand reais), which must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2nd joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 11 (eleven) shares. § 3 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from the membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may be delegated to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. Classification of information: Internal Use § 4º A general meeting, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new quotas -capital shares, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2nd of this article, subscription and monthly payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9º In cases of issuance, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, added to the surpluses or deducted the losses of the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting the parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative , respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Share Capital may be refunded to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. $13. Redeemed amount will be released 50% (fifty percent) in a single payment and the remainder, in up to 36 (thirty-six) monthly and successive installments, the first starting in the month following the date of initial release, remaining the minimum capital to be redeemed in situations of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, in accordance with statutory provisions. § 14 - When granting the request for eventual redemption of shares, the Board of Directors must observe, among others, the following criteria: a) the conditions are considered financial and assets of the Cooperative, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. Classification of information: Internal Use b) maintenance of the stability inherent to the fixed capital nature of SICREDI RECIFE; c) compliance with contractual guarantees of quotas - parties to credit operations contracted with SICREDI RECIFE. d) the partial result of the year in which the dismissal took place presents surpluses; and not there are losses to be compensated with future surpluses; § 15 - If it is impossible to respond promptly to the request for redemption, for the reasons listed in subparagraphs “a” to “e” of the previous paragraph, the member will obey the chronological order of the request, with the preference for redemption, when the respective framework. § 16. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their membership status, with the minimum membership fees established in § 2 of this article. § 17 - The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by members more flexible, including for the purpose of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the member status with the minimum established shares. in § 2 of this article. § 18. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 19. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which his dismissal from membership occurred. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may charge it using the means permitted by the national legal system. § 20. The evolution referred to in §§ 1, 3, 14, 15 and 16, if approved by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, will be at the discretion of this collegiate body, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with installments of payment by the Cooperative also being permitted. § 21. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 22. If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the latter may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective quotas, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital quotas, maintaining their status as a member with the minimum number of quotas - parties established in § 2 of this article. § 23. The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the company's reserve fund. cooperative after 5 (five) years of termination. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Classification of information: Internal Use Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes , will take any and all decisions of interest to the Company, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or discordant. § 1 At the discretion of the Board of Directors, and considering the relevance of the matters, the matters on the agenda of the general assemblies may or may not be previously assessed by the respective groups in which the members are grouped. § 2 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform members later. § 3º The coordination of the core assemblies will be the President of the Council of Administration of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if they are unable to do so, by whoever he/she indicates. §4 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, by means of a notice, which must be published prominently on the website of the Cooperative or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights , in which case at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the necessary specifications IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of a remote assembly, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of their dispatch, for the purpose of installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held on second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as it is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; Information classification: Internal Use II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates on second call; III - 10 (ten) legacies, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, without, however, having their voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2nd The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the delegate's vote at general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies for delegates among the nuclei will be carried out based on the regulations themselves and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 31 (thirty-one) nuclei, observing the regulations own; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One permanent delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the associates who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4º In case of a tie in the voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new meeting will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 20. General meetings will be chaired by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2º When the general assembly does not has been convened by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or other member chosen at the time, with the main stakeholders in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his alternate or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except for matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the meeting and the Secretary of Works, as well as by a commission of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum, both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, everything duly recorded in minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Meeting Art. 24. The ordinary general meeting will be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses arising from the insufficiency of contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election the components of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses of the members of the Councils; Classification of information: Internal Use V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, this Statute, excluding those under the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is its exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting - operationally to the same board. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, collegial deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 13 (thirteen) advisors, among them, a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the compliance with other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain, since the application, an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or also, with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, directly or collaterally, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; Classification of information: Internal Use III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered a competitor of any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or in another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is a controller or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have a negative record in any database; VIII - not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property or the National Financial System, or sentenced to a sentence that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; IX - not be declared disqualified or suspended from holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies in institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil or in entities of supplementary pension plans, insurance companies, capitalization companies, publicly-held companies or entities subject to supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission; X - not be declared bankrupt or insolvent. XI - not to have, by intent or guilt, practiced irregularity that has caused any damage or wear to the image of Sicredi in any of the Sicredi members; XII - have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two financial years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) core assemblies in the last 3 (three) years; XIII - have participated, in the immediately previous year, or participated in courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors in the period of his mandate, until 1 (one) year after taking office; XIV - have availability of time to fully comply with statutory and legal responsibilities, and accumulation with another position or function (elective or not) that requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the Cooperative is prohibited; XV - have certification from the Crescer Program; XVI - preferably be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he/she is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XVII - have training in a higher-level course; XV – meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XIX - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by Classification of information: Internal Use any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by the entities that make up Sicredi; XX - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XXI - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is the majority shareholder or administrator, the provision of services or the supply of products being considered habitual which, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasting more than 2 (two) months; § 1º the unblemished reputation of the counselors will be evaluated considering the existence of: criminal proceedings or police investigation; judicial or administrative process that is related to the National Financial System or the Brazilian Payment System; proceedings relating to insolvency, liquidation, intervention, bankruptcy or judicial recovery; failure to fulfill obligations; and other situations, occurrences or similar circumstances. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, If the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, and those elected will remain in office until the successors take office, allowing them, from the election, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5º In licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the advisors, among themselves, will designate a successor (and s), and the first assembly that follows elects new occupant(s) for said position(s), confirming or not the designated one(s), and the elected person(s) will fulfill the remaining time of the term(s) of the President and/or succeeding Vice-President(s). If the number of Council members is reduced to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7º They constitute, in three other hypotheses of vacancy in the elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 3 (three) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; Classification of information: Internal Use V - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 8º In the hypothesis If the counselor or director is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy. of the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood to be: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, in accordance with the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed post, designated or delegated – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, monthly in an ordinary manner, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President, the majority of the Board itself, or, even, by request the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by majority simple vote, with the majority of its members present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1 The call for meetings of the Board of Directors will be given, preferably, in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner ( a) or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and compliance with the planning approved by it ; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; Classification of information: Internal Use III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of operations credit with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of assets Cooperative properties, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate the allegations of infractions committed within the company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of the appropriate penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital holdings in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV - authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as to decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of the Cooperative's other facilities or branches, within or outside the municipality headquarters, in accordance with current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XVI - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distributing bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing share capital among members; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors appoints other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, will define for each one, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 30. The Chairman of the Board is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the activities of the Cooperative, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Board Executive; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans specifically relating to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit for consideration by the Board of Directors Administration the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Fiscal Council and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, inside or outside the membership structure, subject to the special powers of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, convening and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social court in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Administrative Council. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his/her leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in which the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest to the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, being an Executive Director and a Business Director, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the position not occupied will be exercised cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the person(s) name(s) by part of the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid through the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed capital companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. Art. 33. To be fit for the exercise of the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in article 27, except for items XII, XIII and XV II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V – meet systemic requirements complementary when provided for in the regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board is responsible, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - operationally administer the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and corporate guidelines and strategies from Sicredi; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, collective agreements or conventions, give in and compromise or waive rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of these Bylaws; Classification of information: Internal Use III - appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Mandate instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a period of time. determined, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, subject to the provisions in this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for legislation and non -assets Sicredi interns; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities typical of the Cooperative’s ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for liquidation or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; Classification of information: Internal Use e) respond for performance management and monitoring of the Cooperative's results, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the work plan, annual or multi-annual, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent active cooperation in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as forwarding measures in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) be responsible for the management of the performance and monitoring of the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) respond, formally, for the responsibilities indicated before the regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are pertinent to its corporate purpose and as provided for in this Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever which is convened by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within his competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in the terms of art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In case of vacancy of all positions in the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim manager and executive to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Clearing Service Papers, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause damage to the Company, will be liable directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board Members and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the form of the paragraph above, have as a consequence any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) substitute, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing - if, regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to X XI, with exception to item XII of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires a complete, independent and unrelated slate(s) from the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2º The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is a member. majority or administrator, considering as usual the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, a duration of more than 2 (two) months. § 3 the term of office will be 2 years, with renewal of at least 1 (one) effective member and 1 (one) alternate member at each election. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on an ordinary monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 In its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and direct the work, and a secretary. Classification of information: Internal Use § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, substitutes will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40. In the event of temporary absence, or in the event of vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call a general meeting to fill them appropriately, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 75, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Among other duties arising from the legislation, this Statute and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising assiduous supervision over the assets, the operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the accounts of the Cooperative administration and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, being able to advise - internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of their functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the company's auditors Central and independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other formally established systemic deliberative bodies, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all individual cooperatives and their central members of Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, alerting about the irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the risk scenario institution's risk, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; Classification of information: Internal Use IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general meeting, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which results from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in inertia or failure to report it to the general assembly in a timely manner. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized herein, will take promptly take appropriate measures, including at the judicial level, to promote the accountability of directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. CHAPTER IX SETTING THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one) year, ending on December 31 Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up in the year, one being on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surplus determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 10% (ten percent), at least, gradually increasing by 3% (three percent) each year, up to a limit of 45 % (forty-five percent) for the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; II - 5% (five percent), at least, for the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended for the provision of assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in its area of ​​action; III - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1 Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the required/stipulated asset structure, by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares - shares of the associates' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 2 Donations without a specific allocation may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining the mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among members. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER , at the very least, are not willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members, to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER XI OMBUDSMAN OFFICE - SHARED OMBUDSMAN OFFICE Art. 49. The Cooperative will maintain an agreement to carry out ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with current legislation. CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their data registration documents will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 5 2. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when appropriate, the social bodies. Art. 5 3. The current members of the Fiscal Council will have their mandates preserved until the Ordinary General Assembly of 2023, applying the provisions changed in this body from the Ordinary General Assembly to be held in 2023. Art. 5 4. The nucleation contained in Articles 13, 16 and 17 will come into effect from the 2025 Ordinary General Assembly. Recife -PE, February 7, 2023 Wilberto Gomes de Sousa Elisio Guerra de Souza Executive Director Business Director