1 Iguatemi Business Avenida Nilo Peçanha, 2.900 9th floor - Chácara das Pedras 91.330 -001- Porto Alegre - RS - Brazil Tel: +55 51 3204 -5500 ey.com.br INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Administrators and Associates of Sicredi Recife Credit Cooperative - Sicredi Recife Recife / PE Opinion We examined the financial statements of the Sicredi Recife Credit Cooperative - Sicredi Recife (“Cooperative ”), which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2020, and the respective statements of surplus, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year ended on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and financial performance of Cooperativa de Crédito Sicredi Recife - Sicredi Recife on December 31, 2020, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN), including Resolution No. 4, 818 of May 29, 2020 of the National Monetary Council (CMN) and BCB Resolution No. 2 of August 12, 2020 of BACEN. Base for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities, in accordance with such standards, are described in the following section entitled “Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Council Federal Accounting Office, and we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Other information accompanying the financial statements and the auditor's report The management of the Cooperative is responsible for this other information that comprises the management report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the report of management and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on this report. In connection with the audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read management's report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or, otherwise, it appears to be materially distorted. If, based on the work performed, If we conclude that there is a material misstatement in the management report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. A member company of Ernst & Young Global Limited 2 Management and governance responsibilities for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by Banco Central do Brasil - Bacen and by the internal controls that it determined as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. When preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of financial statements unless management intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no realistic alternative to avoid closing operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing the financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for auditing financial statements Our The objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and to issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any existing relevant distortions. Distortions can be arising from fraud or error and are considered relevant when, individually or together, they can influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users taken based on the aforementioned financial statements. As part of the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. Furthermore: • We identify and evaluate the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, whether caused by fraud or error, we plan and perform audit procedures in response to such risks, as well as obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, omission or intentional misrepresentations. • We obtained an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Cooperative's internal controls. • We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by management. 3 • We conclude on the adequacy of management's use of the operational continuity accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is a relevant uncertainty in relation to events or conditions that may raise significant doubt in relation to the Cooperative's operational continuity capacity. If we conclude that material uncertainty exists, we should draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or include modifications. It is in our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer maintain operational continuity. • We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner compatible with the objective of adequate presentation. We communicate with those responsible for governance regarding, among other things, the scope and timing of planned audit work and significant audit findings, including significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, February 15, 2021 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC – 2SP015199/O -6 Américo F. Ferreira Neto Contador CRC -1SP192685/O -9