Classification of information: Internal Use SICREDI RECIFE - COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT SICREDI RECIFE CNPJ/MF 70.241.658/0001-70 NIRE – 26400001553 CALL NOTICE FOR DIGITAL EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5 764/ 71 article 43-A) The Chairman of the Board of Directors of SICREDI RECIFE - COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT SICREDI RECIFE, with headquarters at Av.: Lins Petit, 100 – Loja 01 – Emp. Pedro Stamford, Store 01 to 11 - Boa Vista – Recife/PE, registered with the CNPJ under nº 70.241.658/0001-70, using the powers conferred on it by the Cooperative's Social Statute, summons its MEMBERS, which on this date total 18,162 (eighteen thousand, one hundred and sixty and two), in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet at an Extraordinary General Assembly, to be held digitally, on 02/07/2023, at 5 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds ) of members, on first call; at 6 p.m., with the presence half plus one of the associates, on second call; at 7 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform* accessed via the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, to deliberate on the following subject, which makes up the agenda: 1) Broad Reform of the Bylaws, adapting it to the systemic model; 2) Approval of the Regulation of the Pertercer Program (nucleations). Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the Assembly participation tool will be available to members on the website www.sicredi.com.br/recife and at the cooperative's headquarters. To participate in the Digital Assembly, you must follow the following steps: 1. The member must verify that their telephone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or going to your cooperative; 2. Through the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, the member must register, creating a password; 3. On the day and time of the Assembly, the member must access the link again www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, enter their CPF and registered password, click on their cooperative's event and will be able to participate in the discussions and votes on the items of the agenda. Information classification: Internal Use For members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in the form of the previous paragraph, the right to a written statement will be guaranteed, directed to the board of directors, via chat, protected, as well , your full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, being admitted, Exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool, written voting via chat. The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43-A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN-DREI nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. Recife/PE, January 13, 2023 Floriano Raposo Soares Quintas, President *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, registering and identifying themselves with their CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to manifestation and voting, through remote action, in real time.