1INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Administrators and Associates of the Credit Cooperative of Free Admission of Associates Noroeste do Rio Grande do Sul - Sicredi Noroeste RS Três de Maio - RS Opinion We examined the financial statements of the Credit Cooperative of Free Admission of Associates Noroeste do Rio Grande do Sul - Sicredi Noroeste RS (“Cooperative”), which comprise the balance sheet as of December 31, 2016, and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, changes in equity and cash flows for the year ending on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above adequately present, in all material aspects, the equity and financial position of the Noroeste do Rio Grande do Sul Members Free Admission Credit Cooperative - Sicredi Noroeste RS in December 31, 2016, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - BACEN. Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities under such standards are described in the following section entitled “Responsibilities of the auditor for the audit of the financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion.Centro Empresarial MostardeiroAv. Mostardeiro, 322 10th floor – Moinhos de Vento 90430-000 – Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil Tel: +55 51 3204-5500 Fax: +55 51 3204-5699 www.ey.com2Other information accompanying the financial statements and the report auditor Management is responsible for that other information that comprises management's report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover management's report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion thereon. report. In connection with the audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read management's report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or, otherwise, it appears to be materially distorted. If, based on the work performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement in the management report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Audit of amounts corresponding to December 31, 2015 The amounts corresponding to the year ended December 31, 2015, presented for comparison purposes, were previously audited by other auditors who issued a report dated February 12, 2016, which did not contain any modification. Management and governance responsibilities for financial statements Management is responsible for preparing and adequate presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by BACEN and the internal controls that it determined as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. When preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of financial statements unless management intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no realistic alternative to avoid the closure of operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing statements 3Auditor's responsibilities for auditing the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and to issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit performed, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, always detects any relevant distortions that may exist. Misstatements may arise from fraud or error and are considered material when, individually or collectively, they may influence, within a reasonable perspective, users' economic decisions taken based on said financial statements. As part of the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain skepticism professional throughout the audit. In addition: · We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, whether caused by fraud or error, plan and perform audit procedures in response to such risks, and obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from an error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, omission or intentional misrepresentation. · We obtain an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Cooperative's internal controls. · We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by administration. · We conclude on the appropriateness of management's use of the going concern accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is material uncertainty regarding events or conditions that may raise significant doubt regarding the company's ability to continue as a going concern Cooperative. If we conclude that material uncertainty exists, we should draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the statements financial statements or include a change in our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may lead the Cooperative to no longer remain in operational continuity. · We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner consistent with the objective of fair presentation.4 We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other things, the planned scope, timing of the audit, and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal controls that we identify during our work. Porto Alegre, February 16, 2017 ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC – 2SP015199/F-6 Dario Ramos da Cunha Contador CRC – 1SP214144/O-1