Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Cerrado de Goiés — Sicredi Cerrado GO NIRE N°: 52400009652 | CNPJ N°: 061332.931/0001-73 CALL NOTICE ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY (Digital Modality) The President of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Cerrado de Goias - Sicredi Cerrado GO, in the use of the powers conferred on him by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the core delegates, who on this date total 41 (forty-one), to meet meet at an ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 4, 2023, at 7:00 am, on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, on second call, at 8:00 am: 00 hours, with the presence of half of the delegates plus one, and, in the third and final call, at 9:00 hours with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The Assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Rua 147, no. 329, Marist sector, Goiania, Goias, and, simultaneously, through videoconferencing, through the Pertencer Program Platform, according to instructions available in the observations field. At the meeting, the following matters on the AGENDA OF THE DAY ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY will be discussed and resolved 1. Presentation of accounts for the financial year ending on December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) demonstrative leftovers or losses; d) opinion of the Supervisory Board; e) audit opinion. 2. Allocation of results; 3. Ratification of the allocation of resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund; 4. Setting the value of fees, attendance records and bonuses for Board members; 5. Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1. Statutory reform with the aim of amending the following articles: a) Art. 1: to change the area of ​​activity, excluding the municipalities of Crixas, Itapaci, ltapuranga, Jaragua and Nova Crixas, and including the municipalities of Cacu, Firminopolis, Guapo and Maurilandia; b) Article 2: to establish the criteria for disaffiliation from the Center; c) Article 4: to add provisions to the Cooperative’s corporate purpose; d) Art. 5: change the conditions of admission to the Cooperative's membership; e) Art. 12: change provisions on share capital; f) Article 13: insert the possibility of holding a meeting in person, remotely or in person and remotely simultaneously; g) Article 14: change the formalities for calling and holding a general meeting; h) Art. 17: change the number of groups to which the cooperative will group members; i) Art. 18: Exclusion of the section “in person or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means”, since this provision is already included in art. 13; j) Art. 24: insert into the meeting agenda general ordinary approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; k) Art. 27: adjust the requirements for holding office on the Board of Directors, as well as include provisions on the investiture of elected officials; I) Art. 28: include the provision for holding meetings in person, remotely or in person and remotely simultaneously; m) Art. 29: adjust the powers of the Board of Directors; n) Art. 32: include provision regarding the investiture of elected directors; 0) Art. 33: change the conditions for holding the position of Director; p) Art. 34: add powers to the Executive Board; q) Art. 36: wording adjustment; r) Art. 38: change the composition and requirements for holding office on the Fiscal Council, as well as include provisions on the investiture of elected officials; s) Art.39: change the method of holding Fiscal Council meetings; t) Art. 40: amendment of the rule on vacancies in the Fiscal Council; u) Art. 44: text improvement and inclusion of the possibility of using resources from the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES) in actions linked to the community; v) Art. 53: inclusion of a transitional provision that postpones the validity of the change in the composition of the Fiscal Council until the next election of the body. Goiania, March 24, 2023. L. W 2 Zeir Ascari President OBSERVATIONS: 1. The 3 documents and information on the matters listed on the agenda of the assembly are available available at the Cooperative branches, will be sent to the emails of delegates registered in the Cooperative system, and can also be requested via email: danie|a_osoares@sicredi.com.br. 2. Instructions for participation and voting in the digital assembly will be made available to Delegates/Associates via the electronic address www.sicredi.com.brlassembIeias. The digital environment in which the digital meeting will be held can be accessed through a browser or computer or smartphone application compatible with Windows, IOS and Android systems. The mechanisms used will allow Delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to voice and vote, through remote action through audio, video and chat, in real time. To access, simply click on the link, available at the email address mentioned above, and fill in your identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. 3. The General Assembly will be entirely recorded, in compliance with the provisions of Annex VI, is Normative Instruction 81/2020 of the Department of Business Registration and Integration.