'P rundo.V' 72$ Sicredi social NOTICE OF THE SOCIAL FUND SICREDI CERRADO GO CNPJ: 06.332.931/0001-73 LINTRODUCTION This notice establishes rules for registration and selection of projects that will have financial support, in full or in part, from the Social Fund of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Cerrado de Goias — Sicredi Cerrado GO for its development, as provided for in regulation. 2.0 OBJECTIVE The Social Fund aims to strengthen actions developed by entities in the municipalities where the Cooperative is present, and that act for the benefit of the community, including projects in the following areas: education, culture, sport, environmental sustainability, security, health, social inclusion and others that promote community development and are aligned with principles and values ​​of the Cooperative. Social Fund resources cannot be used to pay for events or activities that do not comply with the regulations. 3. COOPERATlVA AND PARTICIPANT MUNICIPALITIES: Cooperative: Sicredi Cerrado GO Municipalities of Goiés: Aparecida de Goiania, Arenopolis, Caiaponia, Goiania, Goiatuba, |pora', Itumbiara, Jatai, Morrinhos, Piranhas, Quirinopolis, Rio Verde, Sao Simao, Sao Luis de Montes Belos, Santo Antonio da Barra, Senador Canedo, Trindade. 4.FRAMEWORK FOR PROJECT REGISTRATION To be able to register projects, entities must meet the following criteria: a) Have an active relationship with the Cooperative; ‘P rundo.V’ 72$ Sicredi social b) Be registered with the CNPJ, with regular and active status, and have, expressly in the entity's objectives, provided for in the bylaws or constitutive act, at least one of the following listed purposes, which are educational, cultural, sports, environmental, health, safety, social inclusion or others that are aligned with the principles and values ​​of cooperativism and promote community development; c) N50 respond, nor any company of which it is controller or administrator, due to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances; cl) Be in compliance with obligations to the Cooperative; e) Have suitability and community recognition in their area of ​​activity (entities and their leaders); f) N50 have leaders who belong to political parties; g) No promoting actions of a political-partisan nature. 5. DISTRIBUI<;/"A0 OF RESOURCES a) Each beneficiary or representative entity may register only one project per year; b) The maximum allocation for each project will be up to 12 minimum savings. 6. DEADLINES a) The deadline for project registration, initially from February 6th to March 31st, 2023, was extended until April 24th; b) The period for analysis and approval of projects by the local committees of each agency will be from April 25th to May 5th, 2023; c) The analysis period by the regional committee will be 8 on May 19, 2023; cl) the return period for entities on the status of projects contemplated, partially contemplated or not contemplated will be until May 26, 2023; e) The delivery of documents for the projects covered, in whole or in part, must be carried out by June 9, 2023; ‘P rundo.V’ 72$ Sicredi social e) The event to present the chosen projects will be on June 16, 2023, in a location to be defined by Sicredi Cerrado GO, and may occur virtually; f) The credit to the current account of resources relating to the chosen projects, which are in accordance with this regulation, will be carried out until June 30, 2023; g) The use of the resources received must be proven by December 29, 2023. 7.lNSCRl(;ACTION AND APPROVAL Project registration must be carried out through the website sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade, selecting the Social Fund option. Projects that meet the criteria established in the regulations, will proceed to the evaluation stage by the Local Committee of each agency, and may be included, not included or partially included. The Local Committee is made up of core coordinators and staff from each agency. The committee's opinion will be recorded in minutes, which must be forwarded to the cooperative's Regional Committee, made up of members of the Board of Directors, Board of Directors and Relationship Area. The Regional Committee will analyze final and appropriate referrals. Entities that register their project must receive feedback via the website. In case of approval, the next steps will be informed. 8.DlVULGA(;AO To publicize the projects, they may be publicized at Meetings, Assemblies, on the cooperative's social networks and in external media (newspapers, radios, blogs and magazines), by Sicredi. The entities and those involved, benefited from your project, authorize the use of image, sound and voice, so that Sicredi can publicize the project, for an indefinite period of time, free of charge. 'I f“"°’°. " 725 Sicredi social 72.5 Sicredi 9. FINAL POSSITIONS Omitted cases will be decided by the Regional Committee or the Cooperative's Board of Directors, as appropriate. Goiénia, March 29, 2023. In QM-' ~ Zeir Ascari President of Sicredi Cerrado GO Sicredi Cerrado GO Rua 147, n“ 329 — Setor Marista 74170- 100 — Goiémia/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664