‘P bottom A; 0 social q. Sicredi The Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly, on March 12, 2021, supported by the micule assemblies, approved the allocation of 1% of the cooperative's results to the Social Fund, which will observe the definitions contained in this regulation. This Regulation aims to regulate and establish the conditions for the implementation and operation of the social fund of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of Cerrado de Goias — Sicredi Cerrado GO, which aims to support local social projects, of collective interest, focused on education, culture, sport, health, environment, security and social inclusion, and which contribute to the development of communities in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity, exercising the seventh universal principle of Cooperativism — Interest in the Community. The Social Fund is constituted and maintained with resources originating from the allocation, of a determined percentage, of the Cooperative's net surpluses, calculated in each year. Such resources will be allocated to investments in the implementation or promotion of projects, public or private, aimed at community development, in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity, when not included in the hypotheses of use of resources from FATES — Fund for Technical, Educational and Social. a) Source of Social Fund resources The Social Fund, with a budget corresponding to 1% of the year's results, will be apportioned to each agency in the following proportion: 1) 50% equally between agencies; 2) 50% in proportion to the number of members of the agency. The resources of each agency not used in the same year will remain available for use in the following year. There is no restriction on the agency that presents a negative result. Sicredi Cerrado GO Rua 147, n“ 329 — Setor Marista 74170-100 — Goiénia/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664 ‘P fund A; 0 social q. Sicredi b) Allocation of resources The Social Fund will aim to support existing projects in the area of Cooperative action, aimed at carrying out initiatives that contribute to the community, related to the following themes: -Education: investments in education, training, teaching materials, furniture, utensils and structural improvements; -Culturaz collective activities that develop spirituality, theater, music, dance, research, and their respective materials; -Sport: aimed at inclusion through the practice of sports, acquisition of materials, equipment for sports practice and hiring an instructor; -Environmental sustainability aimed at recycling, preservation, conservation and generation of natural resources; -Security: support actions aimed at public security and collective well-being; -Health intended for improving infrastructure and equipment aimed at common use, developed by health entities, service clubs, homes for the elderly and children, and community associations; -Social inclusion: actions that aim to mitigate effects of differences in social class, education, age, disability, gender, social prejudice or racial prejudice. Others: other actions aimed at community development, which are aligned with the principles and values ​​of the Cooperative and which aim to change a reality, are structured in order to achieve this objective, and are promoted by public or private entities, without profit purposes , Legally constituted, present in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity. note: Resources from the Social Fund cannot be used to finance events or activities that do not comply with the fund's regulations. Sicredi Cerrada GO Rua 147, n“ 329 — Setor Marista 74170-100 — Goiénia/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664 ‘P fund A; 0 social q. Sicredi c) Framework for project registration: To be able to register projects, entities must meet the following criteria: -Have an active relationship with the Cooperative; -Be registered with the CNPJ, with regular and active status, and have, expressly in the entity's objectives, provided for in the bylaws or constitutive act, at least one of the following listed purposes, which are educational, cultural, social, sports, environmental, health, safety or others that are aligned with the principles and values ​​of cooperativism; -Do not respond, nor any company of which you are a controller or administrator, due to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance bounced checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances; -Be in compliance with obligations to the Cooperative; -Have suitability and community recognition in their area of ​​activity (entities and their leaders); -Not have leaders who belong to political parties; -Do not encourage actions of a partisan political nature. d) Distribution of resources - Each beneficiary or representative entity may register only one project per year; -The maximum allocation for each project will be up to 12 minimum wages. e) Deadlines The following deadlines must be observed: Sicredi Cerrada GO Rua 147, n“ 329 — Setor Marista 74170-100 — Goiénia/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664 ‘P Fundo AL 0 social q. Sicredi 1. The deadline for project registration, initially from February 6th to March 31st, was extended until April 24th; 2. The period for analysis and approval of projects by the local committees of each agency will be April 25 on May 5, 2023; 3. The period of analysis by the regional committee will be from May 8 to 19, 2023; 4. The deadline for entities to return the status of projects contemplated, partially contemplated or not contemplated will be May 26, 2023; 5. The delivery of documents for the projects covered, in whole or in part, must be completed by June 9, 2023; 6. The presentation event for the chosen projects will be on June 16, 2023, in a location to be defined by Sicredi Cerrado GO, and may occur virtually; 7. The credit to the current account of resources relating to the chosen projects, which comply with this regulation, will be carried out until June 30, 2023; 8. The use of the resources received must be proven by December 29, 2023. e) Form of forwarding and approval Project registration must be carried out via the website www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade, selecting the Fund option Social. Projects that comply with the criteria established in this regulation will proceed to the evaluation stage by the local committee of each agency, and may be included, not included or partially included. The local committee is made up of core coordinators and staff from each agency. The committee's opinion will be recorded in minutes, which must be forwarded to the cooperative committee, made up of members of the Board of Directors, Board of Directors and Sicredi Cerrado Area GO Rua 147, n" 329 — Setor Marista 74170-100 — Goiania/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664 . . fund {F 5lCl'edl soc,-at Relationship. The regional committee will make the analysis |final analysis and the necessary referrals. 'I 7.: Entities that register their project must receive feedback through the website. In case of approval, the following steps will be informed. The Social Fund resources of a municipality in which there is more than one Sicredi Cerrado GO branch, may be used jointly between agencies, strengthening support for common projects. It may even hold committee meetings jointly. f) Use of approved resources Responsibility of the entities that will receive financial resources: I — Hold a meeting between the entity and its board or council, presenting the project registered in the Social Fund of Sicredi Cerrado GO, and informing the approval of the same to receive the funds resources. Write the minutes and deliver a copy via email or in person at the branch, within the deadline defined in this regulation; II — Deliver to the agency a Term of Commitment (Annex 1 — Term of Commitment), signed by the person legally responsible, within the term of this regulation, aiming to commit to the adequate use of the resources received for the execution of the contemplated project and authorizing the use of image for publicizing the project, in any and all Sicredi materials; III — Submit a Receipt (Attachment 3 — Receipt) duly completed showing the amount approved for credit into the entity's current account with Sicredi Cerrado GO, within the period defined in this regulation; IV - In cases where the forwarded project does not receive the full amount, being partially contemplated, the entity must supplement the amount with its own or third-party resources, to complete the project; V - If the entity prepares publicity material for the project, it must disclose in its materials, that the origin of the resources comes from the Social Fund of Sicredi Cerrado GO, consulting the Cooperative regarding the correct use of the Sicredi Brand; Sicredi Cerrado GO Rua 147, n“ 329 — Setor Marista 74170-100 — Goiénia/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664 ‘P fund A; 0 social q. Sicredi VI - Entities with projects covered, when holding events, must disclose in a visible place, during the event and in accordance with Sicredi, the due credits financing, which must include the following text: "This project is being carried out with resources from the Social Fund of Sicredi Cerrado GO”. VII - The contemplated entity must maintain in its accounting files, documents that prove the use of the resources received, such as for example, bank statements, proof of payments, expenses and invoices. Sicredi Cerrado GO reserves the right to request documents, at any time, within 5 years; VIII — Evidence the correct use of resources, with photos, press clippings, among others, for the cooperative, until 12/29/2023. Considering the purpose of the Social Fund, the resources must be applied according to the schedule presented by the beneficiary entity. If the beneficiary entity delays the application of the resource for more than 30 (thirty) days, for any reason, it must return them within 15 working days. Responsibilities of Sicredi Cerrado G0: I - Release the approved resource into account current entity at Sicredi Cerrado GO, according to the rules and deadlines of this regulation; II - It will be up to the Center Coordinators and Agency Managers to monitor the execution of projects to verify the correct application of resources, whenever necessary. Sanctions for failure to comply with obligations by the entity: The entity that does not comply with the obligations described above (Use of approved resources) will not be able to register new projects with the Social Fund. A The condition for it to be able to access the fund's resources again is the return of the resources or the execution of the approved project, according to the agreed deadline. Sicredi Cerrado GO Rua 147, n“ 329 — Setor Marista 74170-100 — Goiénia/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664 'P fund AL I social 4. Sicredi i) Disclosure of the Social Fund To publicize the projects, the same may be disclosed in Meetings, Assemblies, on the cooperative's social networks and in external media (newspapers, radios, blogs and magazines), by Sicredi. The entities and those involved, benefiting from their project, by adhering to this regulation, authorize the use of image, sound and voice, so that Sicredi can publicize the project, for an indefinite period, free of charge. Goiania, March 29, 2023. Sicredi Cerrado GO Rua 147, n“ 329 — Setor Marista 74170-100 — Goiénia/GO (62) 3270 5700 / 99985 0664