/Relatér/'O de ;"J'§.-'l.'i'° 2% S/Cred/' Cerrado GO MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT SICREDI ABOUT SICREDI CERRADO GO NATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS IN <sEsT/3.0 RECOGNITION AND ACHIEVEMENTS <sEsT/3.0 PARTICIPATORY PROGRAM TOGETHER TOGETHER FOR THE COMMUNITY TOGETHER FOR THE COMMUNITY TOGETHER FOR THE COMMUNITY TOGETHER FOR THE COMMUNITY COOPERAC/:\0 AT PONTA D0 LAPIS PUFV LOCAL DEVELOPMENT NEW AGENCIES “PEOPLE WHO INVEST WIN” PROMOTION “PEOPLE WHO INVEST WIN” PROMOTION O3 O4 O 5 O6 O7 O8 O9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 3 Relutorro U6 /mpacto socrui 2021 Message from the Presidency In the year in which we celebrated Sicredi Cerrado GO's 18 years of operation, there were many reasons to celebrate. We consolidate our growth, with sustainable bases and steps based on our strategic planning, with the main objectives of propagating cooperativism and contributing to the development of communities. In 2021, we welcomed hundreds of new members, we reopened and we opened agencies, showing the value of our business model to thousands of people. All the commitment of our teams and the trust of our associates motivate us to celebrate. On the following pages, we invite you to follow our main actions and results from last year. It is worth mentioning that, in cooperativism, the impact generates a chain of development — the member grows, the Cooperative becomes stronger and the community benefits from the resources that remain circulating in the community. locality and also reach social initiatives. We continue to cooperate in achieving personal goals, stimulating entrepreneurship and contributing to prosperity in the countryside. As a result of solid and sustainable construction, we won the SomosCoop Excellence in Management award. This was our second consecutive recognition, including advancing from the First Steps to Commitment to Excellence track, in addition to evolving from Bronze to 0 Silver. Our ideas teams also made us stand out at the state and national level, promoting innovations in the dissemination of cooperativism. There are still many challenges and opportunities ahead. We invite everyone to continue on this path of development and cooperation together. “We consolidate our growth, with sustainable bases and steps based on our strategic planning, with the main objectives of propagating cooperativism and contributing to the development of communities” Zeir Asca laughs President Marcelo Rodrigues Vice President 4 F(e(utr:3rra de impacts socra( 2021 About Sicredi We are a cooperative financial institution committed to the financial lives of our members and communities. It was in a small town called Nova Petrépolis, in the interior from Rio Grande do Sul, which the visionary and today Patron of Brazilian Cooperatives, Father Theodor Amstad began our story. In 1902, farmers in the region had almost no infrastructure, however, they already cultivated the values ​​of mutual help and solidarity. Armed with these main guidelines, they founded a cooperative and gave rise to the movement that we continue to drive today. We always maintain the essence of cooperativism, seeking to understand the needs to serve our members. For nine consecutive years we have been among the Best Companies to Work For, according to Vocé S/A magazine, among other recognitions. I NATIONAL PRESENCE S Our system in numbers More 5.5 million members More than 2.2 thousand advanced service points 108 cooperatives More than 30,000 employees RS 205.7 billion in total assets RS 133 billion in total deposits RS 134.8 billion in credit portfolio RS 25.3 billions in net assets '~?r,u'r«lo'scoL' in SQULIZOZ1 Find out about our Cooperatiua Sicredi Cerrado GO Driven by action that met their needs and provided local development, 56 people came together, in 2003, in creation of the Credit Cooperative of Rural Entrepreneurs of Rio Verde and Region — Cred Verde. In 2006, a new step allowed the consolidation of the initiative: affiliation to the Sicredi system, gaining the name Sicredi Verde G0. THE following years accumulated different development milestones. New agencies were opened and the union of cooperatives also advanced. In 2013, Sicredi Verde GO and Sicredi Vale GO, then headquartered in Quirinépolis, gave rise to Sicredi Sudoeste GO. In 2017, from the integration with Sicredi Centro Oeste, Sicredi Cerrado GO was born. service associates employees in total assets in total deposits in credit portfolio in Ifquido assets Note: Data referring to the end of 2021. 5 Report £1Ell'T'lp0[fD SO[lL7l 2021 National highlight in management The constant search for evolution has given Sicredi Cerrado GO 0 second highlight, in consecutive cycles, in the SomosCoop Excellence in Management Award. The achievement, in 2021, it was Silver in the Commitment to Excellence track. In 2019, the highlight was Bronze, in the First Steps category. “The change of category and the improvement in results demonstrate our ability to evolve and innovate, with the aim of promoting the best experience for our members. The search for excellence is part of the work of all our teams”, praised Zeir Ascari, president of Sicredi Cerrado GO. The 2021 cycle of the award registered 310 registered cooperatives. The recognitions Due to good management practices and excellence, 30 cooperatives were awarded gold, 39 silver and another 34 bronze. The evaluation involved 70 experts in management and governance from the National Quality Foundation (FNQ). Operating in Golés, Mato Grosso do Sul, Tocantins, Bahia and Distrito Federal, Central Sicredi Brasil Central stood out with four *3 ,/sEscooP cooperatives. As explained by the president of Central Sicredi Brasil Central, Celso Flgueira, with the SomosCoop Award, the biggest victory is always for cooperativism. “In recent years, Sicredi’s growth in Brazil and especially in the Center-West is remarkable, and that is why we are increasingly engaged in directing our efforts to improve governance, through the preparation and training of our managers and employees, which guarantees more professional management”, he assessed. The president of the OCB/GO System, LuI's Alberto Pereira also praised the work performed. “It is a source of pride for cooperatives in Goiás to see Sicredi Cerrado GO being recognized in the SomosCoop award. This award recognizes the efforts of managers and employees in the search for excellence in management and as an example for other cooperatives to follow the same path, highlighted Pereira." 7 Social impact rapporteur 2021 Recognitions and achievements YOUNG «Io, INNOVATORS § 5 EM 003 4...» 7W 5 — naliirqg Edi' .h ' isnng' '4='°'=' in DIAKWS CI) »=E-2».- Forbes Innovation Marathon Our teams classified three projects in the GO!Coop Innovation Marathon, an initiative of the OCB/GO System. Another nine Cooperative projects were registered in the first phase. The Gamer Coop team, which proposed a gamified education app, was one of the winners of the Marathon. The trio of collaborators were awarded for incubating the idea and immersing themselves in Silicon Valley, in the United States. Check out the three projects that the forum highlighted: Gamer Coop: educational game app, with a focus on disseminating cooperativismi SuperCoop: app that proposes to offer cooperative products, depending on the user's proximity' Juntos Program: proposal to scale up mentoring to cooperative members, in a virtual way' Inova 2030 The Gamer Coop project was also selected in the Brazil stage of the Inova 2030 program — Young Innovators in SDGs of the United Nations Global Compact, representing the Sicredi System in the initiative. The classification foresees a mentoring journey of nine months and participation in the international stage. Sustainable Carbon Certificate Our Cooperative received the Sustainable Carbon Certificate for carbon offsetting, issued during 2020. Annually, Sicredi Cerrado GO monitors, records and compensates for its environmental impact. In 2020, the measurement indicated 175.97 tCO? Mum Maw. .'*'...."..;;.,°.':'.::.:.. var.'-.:i.. ¢:r:':a, -mo»-um mo '; ':7 an emgodo soomi 2021 Participative management Our associates are protagonists of cooperative decisions and strengthening the cooperative culture. Pertencer Program To encourage member participation in assemblies, we have the Pertencer Program. In 2021, the assembly process took place virtually. Crescer Program Through it, we promote dialogue about our business model, impact on communities and management of , -mm.“ _ _ _ . (oOm~mIIw,\mn undertaking, with the aim of Hvaxikllu to strengthen cooperative culture‘ In the last year, virtually, hundreds of associates participated. Agency Development Support Committee Every six months, we mobilize associates to present the economic and social results of the agencies and receive suggestions. More than a thousand associates participated in the virtual meetings, held in 2021. Sebrae Goitis To support entrepreneurial members in facing the Covid-19 pandemic, the cooperative brought together forces with Sebrae Goias, developing the Together Program, The initiative promotes a month of free mentoring in the areas of digital marketing, financial management and design thinking. During the 60 and 90 day periods, participants were also monitored. President Zeir Ascari recalled that, compared to the first year, improvements were implemented, “To continue meeting the needs of our members, we developed some improvements in 2021. We created the Juntas program, a format focused on female entrepreneurship, In it, we added the themes of time management and entrepreneurial behavior”, he highlighted, Among the members who participated in Juntas, the assessment of improvements in financial management reached an indicator of 8.33, considering a scale from 1 to 10, In relation to internet presence, the associates consider that the evolution reached 9.56. “We are very proud to know that we are reaching different enterprises, for the communities and promoting effectively local development", stressed Ascari. Rogzrlo abreu Danllo Barbosa On a scale of 1 to 10 - with 1 being very poor and 10 being excellent, the associates attributed: average 8.95 in the business maturity level average 8.57 in the evolution of financial management average 9 in improvements in the offer of value to the customer average 9.05 in progress in the presence on the internet Together for the community During 2021. we collected and donated approximately 13 tons of food to families and entities. They took part in Cooperation Day, a national initiative that mobilizes cooperatives to highlight the strength of cooperation. Our Cooperative also made a difference in communities with social and voluntary activities. Highlight for supporting Municipalities in the vaccination process, providing snacks for professionals, in addition to logistics materials. 12 Féeiafoﬁ’/0 L16 very Son/at 2021 Together for the community Day C Check out the initiatives in favor of families in vulnerable conditions social and entities, Agéncia Piranhas Agéncia Quirinépolis Agéncia S50 Siméo Agéncia Verde 13 Féeiafdr/0 L15 mmuim Son/at 2021 Support Ea Escola Mansfao da Crianga Agzio solidarity fridge in Jataf Christmas solidarity agency in Piranhas Quirinépolis Snack donation to Iinha professionals front in Piranhas and Agéncia Itumbiara Santo Anténio da Barra Agéncia Jataf 14 Relatdr/D as social imposition 2021 Through the dissemination of Financial Education concepts, the cooperative seeks to encourage planning and conscious consumption. Different actions, such as virtual and in-person chats, make up the program. The theme is also aimed at children, who gain playfulness through a partnership with Turma da Monica, with comic books and cartoons. cooperagdo na tip do ldpis K 5 f Agéo em Santo Antonio Agéo em da Barra Quirindpoiis 1. Check for unnecessary expenses List your expenses in order of priority and evaluate — without weighing on your conscience — what are the unnecessary expenses. Fixed expenses, such as housing, healthcare, markets, transport, investments and education are generally a priority and will be at the top of the list. On the other hand, frequent trips to the cinema, restaurant expenses or ordering food via app during the week are associated with leisure expenses and can be reduced, which is why they should be at the bottom of the list. From this initial diagnosis, you can analyze the items and decide which expenses you want to eliminate, reduce or even replace‘ 2. Carry out financial planning To start, your financial planning can be very simple. The important thing is to do it periodically to visualize your budget and better manage your money. 3. Prefer to consume products and services “a la carte” Ask yourself: do you consume all the content from all the streaming channels you subscribe to? Do you read all the magazines you receive by subscription? telephony package, including SMS and Iigagoes quota? Yes, we all think that at some point those monthly paid services will be necessary, but, in practice, it doesn't happen that way. Therefore, reflect more on your lifestyle and see what is worth maintaining. 4. Value discounts, but know if they are worth it. Buy only what is necessary. But always pay attention to promotions and coupons that can make a big difference in the final value of the item you plan to purchase. 5. Look for an alternative source of income If, ​​even with adjustments to your budget, you find that you are not able to save enough, you can look for an alternative to contribute to your budget, such as a new source of income. Want to know more? 15 Heiotoiio as social imposition 2021 J a uniéo '4; helps transform children and young people into protagonists of the learning process, with civic action and who, as a result, promote positive impacts in their communities. This is the result built by the A União Faz a Vida Program over the course of 25 years, according to the social impact assessment study carried out. By encouraging the values ​​of cooperation and citizenship, the program contributed to a comprehensive education that allows students to take a leading role. In Brazil, more than 3 million students are reached. In our Cooperative, the program is carried out in Rio Verde, in partnership with the Quasar Educational Center. “Our journey began in 2016 and is more of 500 children impacted. We had the challenge of maintaining the program in non-face-to-face education, encouraging that, even in their homes, children continue to be protagonists of learning", highlighted Zeir Ascari, president of Sicredi Cerrado GO. Find out more: 17 /-?eiUm'i' io [1Eir7i[3UCfD 500012021 New agencies In 2021, new relationship environments were delivered to 5 communities. In January, Rio Verde received the new structure of the Verde agency. In November, the Goiatuba agency It opened. To close the year, the S50 Simao and José Walter agencies, in Rio Verde, were modernized. Jé Caiapénia and the community of Vila Nova, in Goiénia, opened their doors. Soon, Trindade, Morrinhos and Senador Canedo should also have Sicredi agencies. Goiania will also receive new structures. Vila Nova Agency Gaiatuba Agency Sﬁa Simﬁa Agency Relotor/D GE impacm soc/as‘ 2021 “People Who Invest Win” Promotion To encourage financial planning, savings and investments among members, the cooperative carried out the “People who invest wins” promotion. Between June and December, members were rewarded with instant gifts, through scratch cards, and also participated in electronic draws. Professor Rosicleide Luciano Ferreira, from Santo Antonio da Barra, was the lucky one: she won a Chevrolet S10 pickup truck. Alexandre D Alcéntara dos Santos, Jataf's associate, was awarded a Fiat Argo. Two Honda motorcycles Fan 160 were also drawn, including Victor Emanuel Matias Sousa, from Piranhas, and Railson dos Santos, from Rio Verde. More than 430 thousand lucky numbers were distributed among members. ’ Prwmogfio ‘ Sicredi Cerrado GO, 19 Relatdr/D as smpocm 5000! 2021 SicrediCerradoGO ‘F asicredicerradogo sicredicerradogo in sicredi.com.br/coop/cerrado-go ®