CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE OF ARAGUAIA AND INGU, in the use of the powers conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws and art. 5th, §2nd, of the Pertencer Program Regulations, calls on members from all the Cooperative’s nuclei to meet in CORE ASSEMBLY, which will be opened on March 30, 2021, at 7:30 pm (nineteen hours and thirty minutes), Brasília time, in digital mode, transmitted from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Avenida Paraná, no. 168, Bairro Center, in the municipality of Canarana - MT, for all members, simultaneously, via the Belonging Tool, according to detailed instructions at the end. The Nucleus Assembly will remain open for digital voting until 6:00 pm (eighteen hours), opening time. Brasília, on April 6, 2021, with the option of access via any personal device with internet or using equipment provided by the Cooperative in its branches, during public working hours. The votes of the Nuclei in which the presence of at least 10 (ten) members per nucleus is verified will be considered valid, to assess and deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Accounting for the financial year ending on 31st December 2020. 2. Allocation of results. 3. Election of the members of the Board of Directors. 4. Other matters of interest to the membership. Canarana – MT, March 9, 2021. Eldo Renck President       Observations: 1. Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: members must access the tool through the website (or by reading the QR Code – Digital Assembly), registering and identifying yourself with your CPF or CNPJ and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time. Detailed instructions for registration and access to the Nucleus Assembly will also be made available to members, via WhatsApp, media social and personal invitations. 2. The statements for the end of the 2020 financial year, as well as the opinions of the independent audit and the Supervisory Board, are available for consultation on the website, or by reading the QR Code – Documents and Reports. QR Code QR Code Digital Assembly Documents and Reports