ANNUAL REPORT 2022COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI E ZONA DA MATA RS/MG MINAS GERAIS Juiz de ForaRIO GRANDE DO SUL Santiago2PREFACESummary Message from the president 120 years of Cooperativism Nossa Cooperativ a/Central South-Southeast Cooperativ a Sicredi Vale do Jaguari e Zona da Mata RS /MG Our service spaces Expansion in the state of Minas Gerais Sustainability strategy Commitment to the global pact and SDG Relationships and cooperation Spread cooperation and cooperation sustainability Promote inclusion4 6 The seven principles of cooperation 12Timeline 10 15 16 18 19 21 25 27 28 30 Responsible solutions Promote financial education Green economy Contribute to the development of communities Simple attitudes move the world Commitment to the community through the Social Fund Much more than a financial institution Result of a simple, close and active sustainable relationship33 34 36 42 44 45 46 47Local development Promote investments Promote financial inclusion39 40 41 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI E ZONA DA MATA RS/MG20224PREFACE Message from the president My friends and associates, we have reached the end of 2022. To all of us, advisors, coordinators, directors and collaborators responsible for the governance and management of Sicr edi Vale do Jaguari and Zona da Mata RS/MG, we just want to thank all of you because we went through two years of pandemic where we were all affected, we lost friends and family, and all of you remained committed to our cooperative, bringing your resources to us to manage, allowing us to continue growing sustainably well above the growth of the Brazilian banking system. If the world changes every day, we also have to change by facing new challenges, where we overcome them all because we work together, looking in the same direction and with the same purpose, which is to care for and help people. We want thank all of you who unanimously approved our expansion to the state of Minas Gerais where we went from an area of ​​action of 10 7 thousand inhabitants to more than a million people, who generate wealth (GDP) above 2 4 billion of reais. Our growth in Minas Gerais is sustainable, as we already have 8 branches in full operation and, in 2023, we will open another 7 branches where we will remain until the end of this year with 15 branches in the state. The Sicr edi System, to which we belong, It is a large cooperative financial institution that grows well above Brazil's banking system. The combined balance of our Sicr edi system closed the year 2022 with the following numbers: Members: R$6.49 million + 16% Assets: R$264 billion + 33% Credit: R$173 billion + 27% Deposits: R$165 billion + 23% Result: R$5.9 billion. + 24% In relation to our cooperative, we closed 2022 with a total of: Managed Resources: R$2.27 billion Credit: R$1.02 billion Result: R$55.3 million To all of you friends, thank you very much! 5 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG20226 Monument - Padr e Theodor Amstad - No va Petrópolis/RS01 120 years of Cooperativism 120 years of co-operativism Timeline The 7 principles of co-operativism8 10 128120 YEARS OF CO-OPERATIVISM 120 years by Sicr ediCooperativism: In 2022, Sicredi completed 120 years of its history. A journey that was intimately connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for members and communities where we are present. Sicredi's financial education program, Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis, is highlighted in the 2022 Banking T ransformation Award by popular voteSicredi, a cooperative financial institution operating in all states and the Federal District, gained more than 1 million new members in 2022 , totaling more than 6.4 million people. The data represents an increase in 15% in the member base compared to the end of 2021. Sicredi achieves maximum rating from the Moody’s agency. The institution achieved the agency's highest rating, going from AA+ to AAA, proving that Sicredi has one of the safest and least risky credit profiles assessed by the risk classification agency. Sources: https:/ /www.sicredi.com.br/coop/valedojaguarizonadamata/ noticias/Our origins happened with the founding of the first Credit Cooperative in Brazil, in 1902, by the Jesuit priest Theodor Amstad and a group of German immigrants, small landowners and rural workers from Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul. Theodor Amstad was born in Switzerland, in 1851. From a young age, he dedicated himself to community activities in Germany, England and Holland, learning about the importance of cooperative actions for the development of local workers. In Nova Petrópolis (RS), the priest joined 20 local associates and, together, they put into practice this collective vision for building a better future. They started a cooperative venture that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country, in addition to the first Central bringing together Cooperatives, in the first decades of the 20th century. Over the years, the model was taken forward, overcame the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside he arrived in the cities, maintaining through time the purpose of adding income through through shared investments and resources, with equal participation and benefits for all associates and promotion of quality of life. 9 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM Timeline Discover some relevant historical facts from our history. 1902 Constitution of the first credit cooperative in Latin America, in Nova Petrópolis/RS, currently Sicredi Pioneira RS.1964 Reformulation of the National Financial System Law n0 4,595/64, which imposed normative restrictions on the operation of credit cooperatives. 1971 Sanctioned Law nº 5,764/71, which deﬁ ned the legal regime of cooperative societies. 1988 New Federal Constitution establishes favorable regulatory conditions for credit cooperatives. The promulgation of the 1988 Constitution represented, for credit cooperativism, the possibility of achieving the operational autonomy sought since the origins of the movement in Brazil. Brazil.1995 Constitution of Bansicredi, the first private cooperative bank in Brazil, responsible for establishing financial autonomy for cooperatives and allowing more efficient access to the financial market and special financing programs. 102008 Constitution of Sicredi Participações - SicrediPar.2018 Completion of the migration process of cooperatives and Central Sicredi North/Northeast. Migration became a milestone in our history not only because of the expansion itself, but also also for the way it was developed, based on the systemic integration of different cultures.2022 Sicredi celebrates 120 years of history in credit cooperativism.2020 Sicredi becomes a Member of the UN Global Compact. Find out more about our history in the publication A Trajetória do Sicr edi: https://www.sicredi.com.br/trajetoria/ 11 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI E ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM 1Free and voluntary membership Cooperatives are organizations voluntary, open to everyone. While other financial institutions, for example, close agreements with large companies to offer a mandatory salary account to their employees, in a credit union membership happens differently. After the presentation on how cooperativism works, everyone can freely choose whether to join or not. 6Intercooperation Cooperatives work together to strengthen the cooperative movement. O Sicredi is a living example of this, built by the union of several cooperatives, which grow together in a win-win model, bringing prosperity to their members.7Interest in the community Credit cooperatives can be located in regions with diverse opportunities for social improvements, where Traditional financial institutions do not see the possibility of profit. In this way, each financial product or service that members contract in the cooperative brings a result for the community, generating income, jobs and growth in the region.2Democratic management All members have the same voting power, with the same weight in assemblies. This way, everyone decides together on the direction of the cooperative, to deal with issues such as election of leaders, remuneration or even the amounts invested in social programs. THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES OF COOPERATIVISM That were born with the Pioneers of Rochdale and that govern cooperatives around the world, were reformulated over the years to meet the social demands of each era. Its last update was carried out by ACI (International Cooperative Alliance) in 1995. At Sicredi, they direct and support us in generating positive impact: 1213135Education, training and information Education, training and information for members is the most solid way to generate prosperity . Based on this principle, cooperatives promote various education programs in the communities where they are located. are present. Examples of this action are the School Cooperative Program, the A União Faz a Vida Program, the Grow and Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis Program, which form cooperative citizens who engage in the development of their 3 Economic participation of members Members participate in the economic result of the cooperative, that is, the result of operations generated by the money invested by members returns to their pockets, as decided in a manner democratic in assemblies. 4Autonomy and independence The cooperative is totally autonomous and independent in its decisions, and can only be controlled by its members, in a democratic management model. THE PIONEERS OF ROCHDALE Modern cooperativeism emerged in the 19th century, in England, with a group of workers es that sought to improve life and collective prosperity, within a context of advancement of the Industrial Revolution in the country. This scenario brought vast social impacts on the urban population, such as hunger, poverty, long working hours and child labor. Faced with the difficulty they faced in purchasing quality food and essential items at fair prices, in 1844, 28 weavers and other artisans got together and founded the Rochdale Quitable Pioneers Society Limited (Rochdale Quitable Pioneers Society Limited). ). Together, they created an alternative that, through cooperation and joint efforts, provided a fairer economic and social model. Each of the associates contributed one pound, an initial investment that helped open the doors of a cooperative warehouse, starting a business completely outside the standards of the time, without employees and bosses, where responsibilities and r results were divided equally. The pioneers of Rochdale marked the history of Cooperatives by understanding what values ​​and principles are necessary for a The enterprise grows and maintains its purpose over the years, generating value for everyone involved. 13 SICREDI COOPERATIVA VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022COOPERATIVA/CENTRAL NUMBERS We have 18 branches and 1 service point From a total of 2.4 thousand in the Sicredi System 39 thousand members of our coop From a total of 6 million in the System Sicredi R$ 313.3 million in shareholders' equity R$ 30.1 billion in the Sicredi System 1402 Nossa Cooperativa/ Central Sul-Southeast Nossa cooperative/Our south-southeast center Our service spaces Expansion in the state of Minas Gerais16 18 19OUR COOPERATIVE/OUR CENTRAL Mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer ﬁnancial solutions to add income and contribute to improving quality of life of associates and society. Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and companies communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective System. Values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for official and internal standards; • Efficiency and transparency in management. PURPOSE To make a difference in people's lives by generating sustainable results. Nossa Cooperative/ Central South-Southeast Profile We are a cooperative made by people for people, much more than just a conventional financial institution, we are the ideal partner to accompany and help our members in all their achievements. In a responsible and transparent way, we are always together! 16Regional Operation Rio Grande do Sul 10 agenciesMinas Gerais 8 agencies and 1 service point Barbacena Nova Esperança do Sul Jaguari MataSão Francisco de Assis São Vicente do SulItacurubí UnistaldaCapão do Cipó Santiago 17 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022Places where we are presentOUR COOPERATIVA/OUR CENTER Our service spaces We are located in the municipalities of Vale do Jaguari, in Rio Grande do Sul, and also in Zona da Mata Mineira , in Minas Gerais, with spaces designed to offer a simple, close and active relationship, so that you feel at home when visiting us. 18 Expansion in the state of Minas Gerais Elias Zambeli Development Manager Business development The expansion of our cooperative to Minas Gerais gave us the opportunity to spread cooperativism to more people, with a genuine interest in the sustainable development of the communities where we operate. We began operating in the South / Southeast region of Minas Gerais, with more than one million people, distributed in 43 municipalities, of which 33 are located in the Zona da Mata microregion of Minas Gerais and 10 in Campo das Vertentes. Our essence is people, The owners of the business are the associates, and that is why we seek to transform services into relationships, by looking at each associate's moment in life, and thus being their consultants with solutions that prosper. We ended 2022, two years after our arrival, with eight branches opened on Minas Gerais soil, which makes us very happy to enter these new municipalities and expand our area of ​​activity. 19 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022Approval of the expansion project for Minas Gerais and change in the name of the cooperative 2019Timeline ExpansionMinas Gerais 2020 Opening of branches 2020: Juiz de Fora and Barbac in 2021: Pequeri and São João Nepomuc in 2022: Matias Barbosa, Santos Dumont, Bicas and Carandaí 2023 Expected opening of new branches Lima Duarte, Goianá, Mar de Espanha, Antonio Carlos, Cascatinha, and Santa Rita do Jacutinga2003 Sustainability Strategy sustainability Commitment to the global pact and SDG20 25SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our Sustainability Strategy At Sicredi, we operate in line with the main global concepts regarding Sustainable Development, generating value for our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our constitution we have kept a close eye on our impacts. This concern was materialized, in a robust sustainability strategy, which incorporates the best management practices on the topic and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. The expression ESG (environmental, social and governance) seeks to demonstrate that the long-term survival of organizations depends on them also generating value in these three aspects. Our strategy incorporates the “ESG vision” of the market, understanding it as the management itself for the business sustainability. Sicr edi's three essential strategic guidelines, which guide everything we do: Mission, Vision and Values: describe the guidelines that guide our business and guide our development in practice. Based on our guidelines, we build the systemic documents and policies that guide our strategy, decision-making, operations and conduct. The Sustainability Policy establishes the principles and guidelines that guide the decision making in all areas of the business and in the relationship with interested parties, with the aim of increasing our positive impact and reducing our adverse impact. To guide our sustainable development strategy, we have established our sustainability drivers and focal themes. 22We have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes, which are Sicr edi's material themes, that is, the most relevant themes for the sustainability of Sicr edi. Strengthen our governance model Spread cooperativism and sustainability Promote inclusion and diversity Promote financial education Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Ensure integrated risk management Promote eco-efficient management Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable managementFoster the local economy Promote financial inclusion Promote the development of people Contribute to the development of communities 23 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI E ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY To direct our Sustainability Strategy and support us in the evolution of sustainability guidelines, we rely on the Sustainable Development Framework. The Reference is the basis for Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, bringing indicators that allow us to measure our sustainability performance at national levels, regional and local. Monitoring these results can help us identify points where we have the opportunity to advance the Sustainability agenda. BUILD A MORE PROSPEROUS SOCIETY TOGETHER Sustainability DriversGovernance Sustainability CommitteesSustainable Development Framework Instrument »Relationship and Cooperativism »Local development »Responsible solutions »Social »Economic »Environmental »Governance Sustainability Pillars 24Commitment to the Global Compact and the SDGs Our sustainability strategy is reinforced through our external commitments, which connect our guidelines on the topic to the main global initiatives in the sustainable development agenda. Since 2020, we have been members of the Global Compact, a voluntary action of the United Nations (UN), which provides principles, guidelines, information and tools to promote Sustainable Development and Citizenship. When integrating The Global Compact also assumes the responsibility of contributing to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, outlined by the UN to engage organizations in goals such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources by 2030. 25 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022Belonging Program 4 assemblies and 49 core meetings heldGrowing Program 1320 associates trainedRELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM SEARCH STRENGTHEN OUR BUSINESS MODEL IN A SUSTAINABLE WAY. 2604 Relationship and Cooperativism Relationship and cooperation Spread cooperativism and sustainability Promote inclusion27 28 30 Related SDGsRELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM Spread cooperativism and sustainability Nova Esperança do Sul/RS Jaguari/RS Mata/RS São Francisco de Assis/RS São Vicente do Sul /RS Itacurubi/RS Unistalda/RS Capão do Cipó /RS1320 associates trained! Cooperative Education Program for associates. It is through Crescer training that the essence and purpose of cooperativism are disseminated in society, with the aim of forming conscious citizens who support this movement. 28Records of some of the moments of our employees together with members at the Crescer Program events promoted by our cooperative. Santiago /RS - Centro Santiago /RS - Paineiras Juiz de Fora/MG Barbacena/MG Santos Dumont/MG São João Nepomuc eno/MG Pequeri/MG Matias Barbosa/MG 29 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI E ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM Promote inclusion The feeling of belonging is extremely important for any environment, especially in a cooperative environment. And our associates make cooperation happen through democratic participation: we are together, we grow together. Core Meetings At these meetings, the numbers of the agencies in their respective cores were presented for the members, in addition to reinforcing the importance of their participation, who place more than just resources in the cooperative, but also their own trust. General Assembly of Nuclei At the general meeting, the numbers shown are those of the cooperative as a whole, in addition to being transparently explained to all members what the cooperative's next steps are, as well as in relation to expansion. At this stage, each member can exercise their role as owner of the business, at the moment they each of the deliberate items are open to voting. Nova Esperança do Sul/RS Digital Assembly Santos Dumont/MG 30 Ordinary General Assembly At this stage, the items are transmitted to the core coordinators for voting, who are also informed of all numbers, plans and expansion projects of the cooperative. Here, representatives from their nuclei also play the role of voters on each of the items. In this way, the cooperative reinforces its commitment to transparency and growth of the entity as a whole. Records of events held with our cooperative’s core coordinators. 31 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI E ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022Sustainable financeGreen economyCooperation at Ponta do LápisRESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS OPERATE SUSTAINABLY 3205 Responsible Solutions RELATED SDGs:Responsible solutions Promote financial education Green economy32 34 36 RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS Promote financial education We encourage attitudes conscious about money, offering guidance and advice so that our associates, employees and communities can make considered choices, aligned with their well-being, with autonomy, independence and planning. Actions were available throughout the year for members and non-members, intensifying with participation in ENEF week, in online and in-person formats. Actions during the year 2022 Sharpening the Pencil Workshop The Sharpening the Pencil Workshop is a initiative created especially to work on the topic of Financial Education in the lives of employees, seeking to generate reflections on their financial lives and using open and empathetic dialogue between colleagues as an instrument. 344226 people impacted in more than 80 actions! ENEF Week The involvement was collective on the part of all our agencies, holding face-to-face meetings with the purpose of promoting knowledge about the importance of financial control. 35 SICREDI COOPERATIVE VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS Green economy Sustainability and technology Signing documents with paper and pen is already becoming part of the past, and this innovation is also present in our daily lives. With the electronic signature portal, we can carry out various activities related to documentation in a completely digital way. In 2022, more than 37 thousand documents were signed through the electronic signature portal. This corresponds more than 187 thousand sheets of paper saved. It is a very positive impact on the environment, as this number can be translated into a total of 25 trees saved and 2.5 million liters of water saved! The Global Compact is a movement that encompasses companies that are responsible for promoting attitudes that reduce the environmental impact caused by the various activities they carry out, and Sicredi is part of this group. Therefore, we always come out ahead when it comes to environmental preservation. Our portfolio of products and services offers Renewable Energy Credit, which aims to guarantee access to solar panels. In addition to saving a lot on electricity, we are taking care of our environment. In 2022, there were more than 600 credit operations in our cooperative aimed solely at contracting solar energy, totaling a value of 21 million reais! 36More than 340 million reais!Development, security and support for agribusiness Much more than security for our members This was the amount released in costs and investments for agricultural and livestock activities for 3296 members. Resources were made available from small to large producers, in a community in which everyone has their role and their needs are always met according to their moment in life. In this way, we maintain a sustainable relationship, always linked to our purpose of making a difference in people's lives. Among our more than 300 products and services, we make Life Insurance available to all our associates, which goes far beyond just protection with our partner insurance company, Icatu Seguros. Everyone who takes out our life insurance competes in monthly draws with values ​​that can go up to 100 thousand reais. In 2022, Icatu drew a total of 172 members through the Sicredi System, reaching a value of 6.9 million reais. We had 5 members drawn in our cooperative, with a total value of 220 thousand reais. In all the history of the partnership with the insurance company, 47 members have already been drawn in our cooperative alone, which means a value of approximately 1.7 million reais! 37 COOPERATIVE SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022União Faz a Vida Dia ProgramCSocial investmentLOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROMOTE POSITIVE TRANSFORMATIONS IN THE LOCATIONS WHERE WE ARE PRESENT. We are different 3806 Local Development RELATED SDGs:Local development Encourage investment Promote financial inclusion Contribute to the development of communities Simple attitudes move the world Commitment to the community through the social fund Much more than a financial institution Result of a simple, close and active sustainable relationship39 40 41 42 44 45 46 47LOCAL DEVELOPMENT In Minas Gerais, we held Sicredi Inside Investimentos, an event attended by more than 40 potential members and already investors, taking advantage of the moment to disseminate even more Sicredi in expansion territory, in addition to issues directly related to Sicredi's entire available range of investments, as well as a networking dinner involving members and investment advisors from our cooperative. The event was attended by our investment advisors, employees trained to serve the highest levels of investor members in the market.Fostering investments INSIDEinvestimentos 40In order to make a difference, the Sicredi strengthened the partnership with AME - Associação Mulher Empreendedora and SEBRAE-RS, and started Prosperar Com Elas, a program to encourage and support female entrepreneurship, which helps with close and cooperative participation through workshops and consultancies, so that they become increasingly protagonists, bringing benefits to everyone involved, both in their personal and professional finances. Workshop One of the events held through the partnership between the three entities, with the presence of the complete list of entrepreneurs selected to be leveraging their professional career. Collaborative team Promote financial inclusion Team that was part of the beginning of the project, formed by collaborators from our cooperative, both from the agency and regional superintendency, consultants from SEBRAE and AME directors. 41 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI E ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022LOCAL DEVELOPMENT 8658 children and adolescents participating in PUFV09 municipalities Contribute to the development of communities by generating bonds of trust and reciprocity, through structured local investment actions, aligned with the brand, the principles and values ​​of cooperativism and Corporate Citizenship. The União Faz a Vida Program has existed since 1995 , and through cooperative education, develops the principles of cooperation and citizenship for Brazilian children and young people, thus changing their lives, their families and communities. A initiative began in the city of Santo Cristo, in Rio Grande do Sul. 42with the implementation of the União Faz a Vida ProgramSigned contractsPedagogical Shows At the end of the year, pedagogical shows of all projects related to PUFV were held in schools where the program is present. We also had the presence of authorities from Minas Gerais, in a visit with the intention of implementing the PUFV also in Minas Gerais territory. Educa+Coop ProgramMeetings of coordinators of the PUFV Of the 9 municipalities that we have a partnership with in RS, all of them renewed their contracts in 2022 for the next 3 years. This highlights the commitment of the entire community involved in favor of education. Moments of planning PUFV activities, followed by evaluations of what has been accomplished and, subsequently, the end of the year, with two closures made up of coordinators and pedagogical advisors. Forum run online with professionals renowned professionals hired by the cooperative, which serves the entire network of teachers and guests, with more than 700 people participating in this event. 43 SICREDI COOPERATIVE VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Simple attitudes move the world 21 actions, 1,122 volunteers and more than 9,000 people impacted! With national coverage, C-Day has the theme “Simple attitudes move the world”. The objective is to encourage social responsibility initiatives in communities in that cooperatives are part of, through voluntary actions. In all our agencies, with a focus on the SDGs and volunteering, actions were carried out such as: afternoon snacks and games in schools, nursing home day with beauty salon, lunch and dance, blood donation, collection of slippers, food, clothes, toys , games, revitalization of city sites and much more. 44Commitment to the community through the Social Fund Through the Social Fund, our cooperative encouraged in 2022, sustainable development in the cities in our area of ​​operation, generating social and economic benefits for the entire community. The resources from this fund were destined to support social actions aimed at these pillars of development: - Education - Health - Sustainability - Social Inclusion - Entrepreneurship and innovation In total, 85 projects were carried out and more than 470 thousand reais invested by the cooperative, which doubled in value due to the actions that were developed through counterparts! 45 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022WE ARE DIFFERENT Promoting the development of people Our employees are part of the communities where we operate and, at the same time, are responsible for close and human relationships. By investing in education and training, we strengthen local development both by improving our ability to meet local demands and by strengthening the region's human capital. Our The cooperative encouraged participation in different courses, conferences and seminars for our 260 employees. Expogestion: event took place in Joinvile-SC, presenting a diverse selection of themes and speakers, based on current scenarios. Regarding the expansion to Minas Gerais, four new teams were formed for the Mathias Barbosa, Carandaí, Lima Duarte and Bicas agencies through exchange between the states, with the aim of exchanging experiences and learning endization of cultures between the agencies in Vale do Jaguari/RS and the agencies in Zona da Mata/MG. There were more than 16 events with investment in professional education, including Mais Sicr edi, Escola Agro, Fraud Prevention, Design Thinking, Expo Gestão, TDC Future, ESPM and HSM+ 2022. With the aim of always maintaining teams aligned with the purpose, the cooperative provided all managers with the Leaders' Laboratory event, in which managers from agencies and also from the areas of regional superintendence experienced moments of greater awareness in relationships, exchange of practices and managerial maturity with the support of specialized consultancy. 50% of interns hired and 33% of young apprentices promoted to interns260 employees 8 participants in the Estr elar Program cooperative. 50% of participants are already working in leadership roles in the company. Exchange: exchange of experiences and cultures between agencies in Vale do Jaguari/RS and Zona da Mata/MG 46Result of a simple, close and active sustainable relationship 012345678910 NPSCritical zone (- 100 to 0) Improvement zone (1 to 50) Quality zone (51 to 75) Excellence zone (76 to 100) Our cooperative achieved 82.3% satisfaction. We are in the zone of excellence! As a cooperative financial institution, we can offer everything that a traditional bank offers and much more, in addition to contributing to the economy of the region in which we operate. Check out the main differences between Sicredi and a traditional financial institution: Cooperativa Sicredi Has members Distribution of results proportional to the use of products and services Use of products and services is already a basic condition for being a member Democratic control, where one person is equivalent to one vote The cooperative's financial results remain in the trade in its area of ​​activity Traditional bank Has customers Distribution of results proportional to capital invested Use of products and services is not a basic condition for being a partner Control exercised through participation in the Share Capital Profits are allocated to shareholders who, sometimes, are not established in the area of ​​activity In the last 11 years, they have been distributed more than 55 million reais in interest on capital to all our associates. Every month, Sicredi carries out a satisfaction survey, by telephone, with its associates, with the aim of measuring the level satisfaction regarding the service received, products and services in order to promote constant improvements. These surveys are confidential and carried out on members who have been part of the cooperative's membership for more than 3 months. 47 COOPERATIVA SICREDI VALE DO JAGUARI AND ZONA DA MATA RS/MG2022