CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE UNIÃO - SICREDI UNIÃO RS/ES CNPJ no. 88.894.548/0001-73 CALL NOTICE CORE ASSEMBLY Digital Modality The President of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative União - Sicredi União RS/ES , using the powers conferred on it by article 5, § 2 of the Belonging Regulation, invites members from all the Cooperative's centers to participate in the CORE ASSEMBLY to be held on March 5, 2024, at 7:30 pm. (nineteen hours and thirty minutes), in digital mode, remotely, transmitted live from the Administrative Headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Avenida Flores da Cunha, no. 762, Bairro Cruzeiro, in the municipality of Santa Rosa/RS, for all members, simultaneously, using the Belonging Tool*. Members who are unable to participate on the date that the meeting will be broadcast live will have the opportunity to present their vote, also digitally, at the same time. platform, from the end of the transmission of the assembly on March 5, 2024, until 12 pm (twelve hours) on March 8, 2024. AGENDA I. Election of Core Delegates and Substitutes, for representation purposes of members of the Centers at the General Assemblies of the Cooperative, according to art. 16 of the Bylaws and under the terms of the Belonging Regulation; II. Define the position (vote) of the Centers in relation to the matters that will be the subject of the Ordinary General Assembly of 2024 of the Cooperative, which will be presented by the Delegate of the respective Centers at this Assembly, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws: 1. Provision of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2023, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surpluses or losses; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Other matters of interest to the social framework (non-deliberative character). Santa Rosa/RS, February 2, 2024 . Sidnei Strejevitch President OBSERVATIONS: 1. * Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: members can access the tool through the website https://fundacao.sicredi.com.br/assembleias/associado, registering and identifying themselves with your CPF and password, including that of the legal representative of a legal entity member (if applicable) and also through the Sicredi application or Sicredi The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. Detailed instructions for registration and access to the Core Assembly will be made available to members via social media. 2. The Assembly of nucleus will take place in digital format, the modality of which is supported by the Pertencer Regulation, in its art. 5th, § 8.