1 BELONGING REGULATIONS CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This Regulation governs the procedures governing the Sicredi Pertencer Program, with the aim of improving the management and development process of individual credit cooperatives that are part of Sicredi - Cooperative Credit System, hereinafter referred to simply “cooperatives” or “cooperative”. Single paragraph. In addition to the provisions of the caput, the Program also aims to provide instruments for cooperatives in order to expand the participation of associates in matters related to management and development, through centers. Art. 2 The Program is led by the President of the Board of Directors, with the support of the Executive Director of each Sicredi cooperative. Art. 3 The provisions contained in this Regulation regarding the representation of members at general assemblies come into force, when applicable, after the adaptation of the cooperative's bylaws, contemplating this form of participation, in accordance with current regulations, and applies to cooperatives with more than 3,000 (three thousand) members. § 1 It is optional for cooperatives that serve specific segments and/or categories to adopt this form of member participation as long as they have the minimum number of members provided for in the caput. § 2 For the purposes of current legislation, the Delegate will be called nucleus coordinator in these Regulations. CHAPTER II MEETINGS AND CORE MEETINGS Art. 4 A meeting is considered to be a meeting held in person, semi-in-person or digitally with members or coordinators to discuss matters of specific interest to the membership, the nucleus or those defined by the Board of Directors of the cooperative. Single paragraph. The meetings will be organized and held with the prior knowledge of the Board of Directors. 2 Art. 5 The event is considered a core assembly carried out with members with the aim of deliberating on: I - the election and dismissal of the core coordinator, effective and substitutes; II - the matters of the cooperative's general assembly, defining the coordinator's vote, in accordance with § 4 of art. 16 of the Bylaws. § 1 The call for core assemblies, containing the date, time, place and/or form of their holding and matters to be resolved, will be made through the cooperative's usual communication channels with members, preferably at least 10 (ten) days in advance. § 2 The call will, as a rule, be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors. § 3 In the event that the call for the general meeting is carried out by the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, or after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, core assemblies must automatically be called. § 4 In the event of provided for in the previous paragraph, at least 3 (three) counselors or associates must sign the call. § 5 The nucleus may call a nucleus assembly to dismiss or elect its nucleus coordinator. § 6 The core assembly, regardless of its form, will be considered valid when, at the end, it is attended by at least 10 (ten) members per core. § 7 If there is no minimum presence of 10 (ten) members per group, there must be a new call in accordance with § 1 of this article. If there is not enough time to call it, the core vote will not be considered at the general meeting. § 8 The participation of members in the core assembly will be defined by the Board of Directors, who may choose between in-person, semi-in-person or digital forms, without prejudice to the recording of their manifestations in the voting exercise. §9 The matters of the core assemblies will be considered approved by a majority of those present. §10. In the event of a tie in the nucleus vote, the tiebreaker will be exercised by the nucleus coordinator. If absent, he will break the tie by expressing his vote at the general meeting. §11. When holding core assemblies in a blended or digital format, a channel for interaction with the cooperative will be made available. 3 Art. 6 In addition to the specificities described in articles 4 and 5, core meetings and core assemblies are recognized spaces for qualified participation of associated with questions, demonstrations and strategic contributions, as well as learning, formation of cooperative identity and belonging. Single paragraph. The actions structured throughout the year will be considered an integral part of the annual assembly movement when attendance is duly registered in the Pertencer Program tool, and its activities and results are included in the minutes for the respective treatment. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS Art. 7 These are rights of members, in addition to those provided for in the cooperative's Bylaws: I - vote and be voted for nucleus coordinator; II - propose to the nucleus coordinator any matters of interest to the cooperative to be explained at meetings.; III - Discuss and vote on the matters covered by the core assembly. Art. 8 The attitudes expected of members are: I - knowing and practicing cooperativism; II - nominate new members; III - take suggestions to the nucleus for consideration for the improvement of operations, services, customer service, facilities, among others; IV - make yourself available as a candidate for nucleus coordinator. CHAPTER IV CORE Art. 9 The group of members of the cooperative is considered a nucleus, taking into account the following premises: I - the cooperative will define the number of members per nucleus, observing the limit of nuclei established in the Bylaws, through registration in minutes of the Board of Directors meeting. 4 The number of members per nucleus cannot be less than 150 (one hundred and fifty) nor greater than 3,000 (three thousand); II - after this definition, the number of members grouped in groups cannot exceed a variation of 50% (fifty percent) more or less; III - the cooperative must have at least 11 (eleven) member groups, observing that the quantity is always fixed in an odd number; IV - to guarantee the right to vote for members of a newly opened or of those that have not reached the number defined in section I of this article by the Board of Directors, it will be up to the Board of Directors to define how these members will participate in the centers; V - each nucleus will have an effective nucleus coordinator and at least 1 (one) substitute at the time of election, and the number of substitutes may be established by the Board of Directors; VI - the grouping into nuclei must observe the best service for the member, respecting the nucleation criteria defined by the Board of Directors; VII - the cooperative will define the number of nuclei that can be grouped into the same nucleus assembly, as long as it guarantees proper accommodation of members § 1 When the number of nucleus members exceeds the variation of 50% (fifty percent) of members , more or less, the cooperative must redefine the number of members established in section I of this article. § 2 When the number of centers in the cooperative exceeds the number defined in the Bylaws, the cooperative must promote its amendment. § 3 When the Board of Directors decides to reduce the number of cooperative centers, there will be an automatic loss of mandate for the coordinators of the extinct nucleus. CHAPTER V THE CORE COORDINATOR Art. 10. The nucleus coordinator is the individual member elected at a nucleus assembly, responsible for promoting dialogue on the management and development of the cooperative and representing the members at general assemblies, when the cooperative adopts this modality. Art. 11. To apply and carry out the activities of nucleus coordinator, the applicant must: I - be certified in the Crescer Program; 5 II - make use of at least 4 (four) cooperative financial solutions; III - not hold a position or political party role upon election, or during the term of office, in compliance with the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws; IV - no respond, for pending issues related to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, in addition to not having a negative record in any databases, external or within the cooperative itself, as well as having promoted or being promoting, as party or attorney, legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi; V - not be an employee of the cooperative or having been fired from the cooperative for just cause; and VI - not be a former counselor or former director who is subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during his term of office or who, for the same reasons, has been removed from office or resigned from the position for which he was elected . Art. 12. The duties of the nucleus coordinator will be considered: I – when invited by the Board of Directors, participate in activities suggested by the agencies and get involved with the cooperative’s social projects; II - participate in meetings of nucleus coordinators, nucleus meetings and nucleus assembly; III - participate in the general assemblies of the cooperative, as defined in these Regulations; IV - participate, when invited by the President or Board Member, in events of interest to the cooperative; and V - participate in the training of coordinators in the cooperative, disseminating cooperativism. Single paragraph. They cannot be Provided by the cooperative member data to the nucleus coordinator, due to the confidentiality of information. Art. 13. In addition to the matters set out in the sections of art. 4th of these Regulations, the following will be the subject of discussion at a meeting of core coordinators: I - preparation of core assemblies that precede the general assemblies; II - issues related to the development of the cooperative; III - analysis of the cooperative’s economic and financial situation; IV - others of interest to the cooperative administration. 6 CHAPTER VI THE ELECTION PROCESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 14. The election of nucleus coordinators will take place at a nucleus assembly in good time before the general meeting of the cooperative, and the candidate must register, using a specific form provided by the cooperative, within the period established in the call for the core assembly. Single paragraph. The cooperative must certify compliance with the requirements required for the role and communicate the candidate. Art. 15. The term of office of core coordinators will comply with the term set out in the cooperative's Bylaws. Art. 16. The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 17. The following will be considered to be elected nucleus coordinators: I - the member with the most votes and the second most voted by the nucleus will respectively be considered effective coordinator and substitute coordinator, and so on depending on whether there is a greater number of substitutes; II - the members with the highest number of votes, when presented as candidates jointly (effective and substitute(s)), the order of substitute(s) being indicated; III - the members presented as the only candidates (effective and substitute(s)), acclaimed by the Core Assembly. § 1 In any of the hypotheses set out in items I and II of this article, the replacement order must be recorded in the election minutes. § 2 In the event of a tie in voting, the member who who will perform the duties of effective core coordinator will be the member with the longest membership in the cooperative, the same rule applying to substitutes. Art. 18. The investiture of nucleus coordinators will occur automatically after the announcement of the election results. Art. 19. In the event of a vacancy in the effective core coordinator, the first substitute will assume the role. If there are no substitutes to take over, the core members will elect new core coordinators in the form of this Regulations, effective and alternate(s), to fulfill the remainder of the mandate. § 1 The following are hypotheses of vacancy for nucleus coordinators: 7 I - loss of membership status; II - failure to attend, without justification, the general meeting of the cooperative, at the discretion of the Board of Directors; III - death, resignation and dismissal; IV - health reasons, when these make it impossible for the coordinator to actively participate in their duties; V - as part or attorney, promote legal action against the cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi, except those that aim to protect the exercise of its own mandate; VI - no longer meets the conditions for the role of nucleus coordinator, in accordance with these Regulations; VII - be elected a member of the Board of Directors or Supervisory Board of the cooperative, or even a director; VIII - exercise a vote at the general assembly that differs from that defined by the nucleus; IX - hold office in the corporate bodies of a credit cooperative other than Sicredi; X - transfer of the coordinator, under any circumstances, to another nucleus; and XI - become an employee of another financial institution. § 2 In the event that the nucleus coordinator is nominated as a candidate for a political-party position, he must submit a request for resignation within 48h (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed or 48h (forty-eight hours) eight hours) after taking on a of the positions mentioned above, under penalty of vacancy. For the purposes of these Regulations, a party political position is understood to be the provisions of the cooperative's Bylaws. § 3 The dismissal of the nucleus coordinator will occur by deliberation of the members in a nucleus assembly. Other vacancy hypotheses must be recorded in the minutes of the Board of Directors. 8 CHAPTER VII REPRESENTATIVENESS OF CORE COORDINATORS Art. 20. Center coordinators The members will be summoned to represent the members at the general assemblies of the cooperative and, if they are unable to attend, their substitutes. § 1 Whenever the effective nucleus coordinator is present at the general meeting, his/her substitute(s) will not have the right to vote. § 2 As soon as he becomes aware of the impossibility of attending the general meeting or needs to be absent when it has already started, the effective core coordinator must communicate the fact to his deputy and also to the cooperative, for his replacement. § 3º If it is impossible for the core coordinator, effective and alternate(s), to participate in the general assembly, the President of the assembly may request the secretary or another member, who will act as representative for the act, to present the vote , reading the result of the vote of the respective nucleus, in order to be computed at the general assembly, restrictively to those matters that were previously appreciated at the Core Assembly. § 4 According to the system provided for in § 4 of art. 16 of the cooperative's Bylaws, the nucleus coordinator's vote will be linked to the decisions of the nucleus he represents, which must be duly recorded in the minutes of the nucleus assembly. § 5 The absence of the coordinator at the general assembly will be informed by the cooperative to the respective nucleus at the first nucleus assembly that takes place. CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 21. nucleus coordinator will not receive any type of financial compensation, except for the reimbursement of their expenses for carrying out the role, which must be decided by the cooperative's Board of Directors. Art. 22. Meetings and core assemblies held by the cooperative must be registered in advance in the Pertencer Program management tool. Art. 23. The cooperative starting its activity or recently integrated into the System will enter this Program after evaluation and recommendation of the central cooperative to which it is affiliated. This Belonging Regulation was approved at the General Assembly held on 03/10/2022.