Espírito Santo Rio Grande do SulFrancelina Zande Fernandes, associate from Garruchos/RS.SummarySummary MESSAGE FROM THE LEADERSHIP .............................. ..................................... 4 SICREDI .......... .................................................... ............................................. 9 »Systemic action . .................................................... ................................. 10 »Our differences .................................................... ............................... 12 »Sicredi Awards 2021 .............. .................................................... ......... 14 OUR COOPERATIVA SICREDI UNIÃO RS/ES ................................ 17 »Regional operations .................................................... ...................................... 18 HIGHLIGHTS 2021 - SICREDI UNIÃO RS/ES ... ................................ 21 »Did you know? .................................................... ............................................... 22 »Our results ................................................. .................................... 26 »Financial statements ........... .................................................... ..... 30 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ......................................... .... 33 RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM ...................................... 37 »Strengthen the our model of governance ...................................... 38 »Spreading cooperativism and sustainability ... .......................... 45 »Promoting inclusion and diversity ................ .................................. 51 RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS ............. .................................................... ... 53 »Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact ............................... .............. 54 »Investing in Sicredi delivers a better world.................................. 64 »Promoting financial education.. .................................................... ..... 75 »Promoting eco-efficient management ....................................... .................. 77 »Ensuring integrated risk management .......................... ......................... 78 »Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management ......... 81 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT .................................................... ............... 83 »Fostering the local economy .......................... ...................................... 84 »Promoting financial inclusion ...... .................................................... .... 84 »Promoting people's development ...................................... 86 »Contribute to the development of communities.................. 91We ended 2021 full of gratitude for our participation of our members at the Cooperative. We are excited about everything we accomplish. Dreams were supported, challenges overcome and hearts filled with joy as we saw, in retrospect, how much we were able to generate positive transformations in the society in which we operate, bringing prosperity to our associates and community through our solutions, actions and our way of being . The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi União RS/ES kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Our traditional credit lines remained active, as well as the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we were able to closely monitor, again in person, the reality of our associates and the regions where we operate, which made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to the needs of each of our associates. in resuming and maintaining your business. Furthermore, we concluded the Promotion Together for the Local Economy, developed with the aim of contributing to strengthening commerce and encouraging people to value local entities. From September 2020 to March 2021, the Cooperative distributed more than R$1.3 million in prizes, divided into 2,158 prizes for local commerce consumers, reinforcing the commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of associates and society. We continued to offer solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking and apps), which made many demands possible, as these are complete channels, allowing most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that could be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, improving our Customer Service Center. Relationship and Business. This brought even more agility to many of the requests. We continue to extend in-person opening hours at branches, from 10am to 4pm, following all health protocols related to combating the Covid-19 pandemic. We obtained a significant result, closing the year at R$ 103.6 million, a result generated by member participation, the expansion of business with each of them and the increasing membership of new members of the Cooperative. Our credit portfolio reached R$3.1 billion, a value 32.19% higher than in 2020. Net equity, which directly represents the solidity of the institution, exceeded R$590.6 million, growing approximately 14.91%. Total assets reached R$4 billion, an increase of 19.80%. 4 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Message from leadershipAt all times, in our actions and at our service points, we remain focused in the satisfaction of our associates. This is the main quest of all our employees, with an effort that was reflected in the 76.15% satisfaction rate of our associates, generated from the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey. The year 2021 had a very important milestone in the growth of Sicredi União RS/ES: the arrival in the state of Espírito Santo, when, in December, we officially placed our flag in the southern region of the state of Capixaba, opening three branches, including one in Marataízes and two in Cachoeiro de Itapemirim. Furthermore, we had the inauguration of a Business Office, in September, at the Commercial, Industrial and Services Association of Cachoeiro de Itapemirim (ACISCI) and the availability of a mobile agency for circulation in specific actions, in the 22 municipalities in our area of action in this State, generating greater proximity to the population. We are getting to know and learning a lot from the culture of the Capixaba community, which presented many riches, potential for growth and prosperity, and with great satisfaction, we already have three stories of Espírito Santo members to tell in this report. This is just the beginning of development in this State, we have already planned to open four more branches in 2022, in order to be even closer to the communities in the South of Espírito Santo. 5 Message from leadership Opening of the Cachoeiro de Itapemirim/ES branch. Agency opening Jones dos Santos Neves, in Cachoeiro de Itapemirim/ES. Inauguration of the Marataízes/ES branch. As for new physical service points in Rio Grande do Sul, we inaugurated new buildings for the Entre-Ijuís and Santo Cristo branches and created four new business offices, one of which is in the Santo Ângelo City Hall , one at the Santa Rosa City Hall, one at the Association of Retired Workers and Pensioners (ATAPESB) of São Borja and one in the Sulina neighborhood in Santa Rosa, in the innovative concept of sustainable space, as it is installed in a container, totaling 55 service points in Rio Grande do Sul and Espírito Santo. Another piece of news that filled us with pride was the SomosCoop – Excellence in Management – ​​2021 Cycle award, receiving bronze in the “Commitment to Excellence” category, the result of the constant improvement of actions, processes and strategies. In fact, this year, we began reviewing the Strategic Planning, with a group of 35 people, made up of business managers, agency managers, financial administrative managers, Headquarters managers, directors, directors, counselors and core coordinators. The work is being developed through periodic meetings, where the Sicredi System's drivers and priorities are studied and the opportunities and needs of Sicredi União RS/ES' area of ​​activity are analyzed. It is worth highlighting here the commitment to training people, both employees, such as core coordinating associates, in order to maintain and improve our operations with a close eye on the sustainability of the business, forming capable leaders in the succession of management and councils. In fact, at the 2022 Assembly, we will have an election for the Board of Directors, with a proposal to renew five members. In the distribution of results, more than R$35 million returned to members and the community. Furthermore, we promote numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of communities. We highlight here: the performance of the A União Faz a Vida Program in 27 municipalities, covering 82 schools, 10,697 students and 1,016 educators; participation in the Central Bank's National Financial Education Week, which covered 6,335 people with financial education actions; the allocation of R$1.7 million to the Social Fund, covering 238 projects in the areas of health, environment, education, security and sport; promotion of DAY C with the Cooperação que Alimenta action, in partnership with cooperatives from different segments of our region, collecting more than 62 tons of food destined for socially vulnerable entities and families in the region; and we started the CoopeRAÇÃO movement on social media, raising awareness about caring for animal life and donating a ton of food to animal protection NGOs associated with Sicredi União RS/ES. Official acceptance of our participation in the Pact UN Global highlights how actions focused on the sustainability of communities and businesses generate positive impacts. From this point on, we began to further direct our initiatives towards the adoption of principles and practices of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. 6 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ESInclusive, we took an important step by forming a Sustainability Committee, with a focus on the topic to support the Cooperative in the business development and actions. Throughout the pages of this publication, you will see the correlation between our actions and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), demonstrating this action in practice. All of this was only possible due to the engagement of our 869 employees, more than 164 thousand associates and the community with the purpose of building a more prosperous society together, also demonstrating our growth, solidity and security to continue supporting the projects, businesses and dreams of our members, represented throughout the pages of this report by 16 stories that report on the difference that Sicredi made in their lives and in the community. Gratitude to everyone for 2021 and count on us to cooperate and prosper in 2022. Happy reading! Giovani John, executive director of Sicredi União RS/ES and Sidnei Strejevitch, president of the Cooperative. Message from the leadership7 Sicredi Administrative Center in Porto Alegre/RS.Sicredi Performance Systemic01Chapter We are Sicredi - Cooperative Credit System -, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. We have been operating for 119 years, taking our cooperative essence to all regions of the country, with more than 2,200 service points, seeking to meet the needs of our members and contributing to the construction of a more prosperous society.10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Systemic action In total, we are 108 cooperatives that work with autonomy and are organized in this national system that guarantees security and solidity to members. Our business consists of capturing resources from members and lending them to other members in the same regions, ensuring that resources remain in place and encouraging sustainable development. We provide more than 300 financial products and services in a simple and accessible way for you, your company and your agribusiness. We are the only financial institution in 216 Brazilian municipalities. We have 33.7 thousand employees and were certified by GPTW (Great Place to Work), a global people management consultancy. This is recognition that we are an excellent place to work, and this achievement shows that we continue to fulfill our purpose. We are made of people for people and it is our mission to contribute to the well-being of everyone. Cooperativism was born in the 19th century from an ideal, which is unite people for a common goal: generating growth. It was in a small town called Nova Petrópolis, in the interior of Rio Grande do Sul, that the visionary and today Patron of Brazilian Cooperativism, Father Theodor Amstad, began our story. In 1902, farmers in the region had almost no infrastructure, but they already cultivated the values ​​of mutual aid and solidarity. Armed with these guiding principles, they founded a cooperative and gave rise to the movement that we continue to promote today. We started to meet a specific need, today we are stronger, more complete, but we never forget our essence, our history, why we started this work. Today, Nova Petrópolis is the headquarters of one of our cooperatives and holds the most beautiful memories of our System. Our precursor was recognized for his hard work and since 2019, we can call Father Theodor Amstad the Patron of Brazilian Cooperativism, that is, the guardian of our purpose. When everyone works together, it is possible to make everyone's dreams come true through everyone's efforts. And this is what modern cooperativism does today, as we prepare to celebrate 120 years of existence next year. States covered by Sicredi and with an expansion project in progressLegend Sicredi todayOPERATION IN BRAZILROAMRR AC11 Sicredi Legend Sicredi todayBecause if a large stone crosses the path and 20 people want to pass, they will not be able to do so if one by one they seek to remove it individually. But if 20 people come together and push at the same time, under the guidance of one of them, they will be able to jointly move the stone away and open the path for everyone. Father Theodor Amstad Come and learn more about our history, just point your cell phone camera at the QR Code or click here.PA RO MTAMRR MG ESAP TO GO MSMA PICE BA SP PR RSSCRJSEALPEPBRN DF12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Our differences Purpose To build a more prosperous society together. Mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for official and internal norms; • Efficiency and transparency in management.Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Want to know more about Sicredi? Read the QR Code or click here. Net income of R$ 4.7 billion 5.5 million members More than 2.2 thousand service points 108 cooperatives 5 centers 33.7 thousand employees in 3,654 municipalities More than 300 financial solutions R $197.6 billion in assets R$25.2 billion in net worth R$ 207.9 billion in managed resources R$ 133.1 billion balance in credit portfolioSystemic action in numbersSicredi União RS/ES13 Sicredi Principles of Cooperativism • Voluntary and free membership; • Democratic management by members; • Economic participation of members; • Autonomy and independence; • Education, training and information; • Intercooperation; • Interest in the community. Education We believe that investing in education in the present makes a difference in the future. We want to support people to be protagonists of their own story, becoming transformative agents in their communities through quality education. Local development In more than 216 municipalities we are the only financial institution, contributing to the financial inclusion of millions of people. We support initiatives that aim to develop each location, whether with solutions that direct resources towards investments in the region or supporting sustainable businesses. Cooperation We want to bring people together and value the collective, respecting the individuality of each one, in a community that cares about the good of all.Our Causes13 O Sicredi14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Forbes 7th position in the country in the World's Best Banks 2021 ranking. Finance More Published by the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo in partnership with the credit risk rating agency Austin Rating. Sicredi was ranked 6th in the “Banks Financing” category. Finances Mais presents an x-ray of the leading institutions in the financial sector in the country, based on an analysis of the financial statements published in their respective balance sheets for the year prior to publication. Best Biggest 2021 Exame Magazine 15th place among Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Prepared since 1974, the yearbook, which this year has a partnership with Ibmec, brings together the largest companies in Brazil based on the assessment of economic, financial, growth and adoption of ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) criteria. , Environmental, Social and Governance). Época Negócios 360° Guide prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral, the cooperative financial institution ranked 8th in the sectoral ranking of Banks, position influenced by the 2nd place in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. Valor 1000 9th place in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the previous year's ranking. Sicredi also stood out in 11 other categories in the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. Focus – Annual Central Bank Projection Ranking For the second year running, Sicredi is the institution that had the greatest presence in the lists of the five institutions that came closest to getting the indicators right, being the only one to appear in five categories of the ranking. Broadcast Projeções Award 6th place in the General Top and 7th in the Basic Top. In its 15th edition, the award is based on the AE Projeções ranking and aims to reward institutions whose forecasts for the country's main economic indicators come closest to reality. Recognition from BNDES The state body listed financial institutions with the best performance in granting emergency measures between March and December last year, and Sicredi was recognized in two categories, achieving first place in both: BNDES Pequenas Premiações Sicredi 202115 Sicredi In total BNDES Indirect Operations, Sicredi ranked 2nd place. In addition to recognition by BNDES, the institution also stood out in the Brazilian Federation of Banks (FEBRABAN) ranking on Rural Credit: it became the 2nd largest financial institution in granting credit for agribusiness at the end of 2020. SomosCoop Award - Excellence in Management Companies Development Banks/Cooperatives and Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE) and Development Banks/Cooperatives. Top 100 Open Corps We are featured in third time in this ranking that refers to the 100 companies most open to innovation in Brazil. Valor Investe Sicredi has managed to remain among the top 20 since 2019, as assessed by Valor Econômico's Valor Investment Fund Guide. In the Active Fixed Income category, we are highlighted with our Fundo Sicredi Institucional FI REF IRF M from our own resource manager, Sicredi Asset, which currently has more than R$56 billion under management and the strong seal of Fitch Ratings. In the Index Shares category, our highlight is the Schroders Sicredi Ibovespa FIA Fund, managed by our partner Schroder Investment Management, which has more than 200 years of history in the financial market and globally manages more than US$785.1 billion. WYCUP - World Council Young Credit Union People Sicredi was highlighted in this program that recognizes young leaders for significant contributions to their communities and credit unions and who have the potential to make a global impact. Institutions that released the most resources to agribusiness 1st place in total indirect operations carried out for Individuals (PF) and in transfers from the Federal Government's Agricultural Programs, with emphasis on 1st position in credit concessions for Pronaf Investimento, for Inovagro, for Moderagro and Pronamp Investimento. Sicredi União RS/ES received the SomosCoop Award – Excellence in Management – ​​2021 Cycle in December. The Cooperative competed in the category “Commitment to Excellence”, and received the bronze award. This is national recognition of the OCB System for the transparency, accountability, equity and responsibility of the Cooperative. To achieve this, we worked intensely on Sescoop's Cooperative Management Development Program (PDGC), aimed at developing cooperative self-management, with the main objective of promoting the adoption of good management and governance practices. Delivery of SomosCoop award by the president of Sescoop Virgilio Perius.16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Headquarters of Sicredi União RS/ES in Santa Rosa/RS.17 Sicredi We are Sicredi União RS/ES, one of the 108 cooperatives that are part of the Sicredi system . With our local operations, we are closer to our associates and the community in the Northwest and Missions of Rio Grande do Sul and South of Espírito Santo. With this, we work for the development of these regions by understanding the needs of our associates and offer the most appropriate solutions for each moment. Our results, presented in this report and which go far beyond financial ones, show the importance and value of believing that we can build a more prosperous society together through cooperativism.Our Cooperative02Chapter18 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Regional operations Sicredi União RS/ES We are one of the oldest Credit Unions in Latin America. The history of Our Cooperative began in 1913, in Cerro Largo/RS, also by Father Theodor Amstad, who brought the idea and plans to found the then Caixa Rural to the community where Cerro Largo/RS is today, calling on local leaders at the time to start this idea of ​​implementing Rural Caixas, based on the Raiffeisen model, a system he had known in Europe. In 1905, the priest made his first trip to Colônia Serro Azul and, on July 6, 1913, the foundation of the Caixa Econômica and Loans of Serro Azul – Spar und Darlenhenskasse, initially only for school-age children, origin of our Sicredi União RS/ES.REGIONAL OPERATION Associates 164 thousand Employees 869 Municipalities 61 Assets R$ 4 billion RIO GRANDE DO SUL DSL = DIVINE OF SÃO LOURENÇO JM = JERÔNIMO MONTEIROESPÍRITO SANTOIBATIBA IRUPI IBITIRAMA DSL ALEGRE APIACÁMIMOSO DO SULGUAÇUÍ SÃO JOSÉ DO CALÇADO BOM JESUS ​​DO NORTEDORES DO RIVER PRETOIÚNA MUNIZ FREIRE CASTELO VARGEM ALTA ITAPEMIRIM MARATAÍZES PRESIDENT KENNEDYCACHOEIRO DE ITAPEMIRIM ATÍLIO VIVÁCQUAJM MUQUICredit R$ 3.1 billion Result R$ 103.6 million Want to know more about our history? Read this QR Code or click here to access the book 'The First Centenary of a Dream'.19 Our Cooperative RIO GRANDE DO SUL DSL = DIVINE OF SÃO LOURENÇO JM = JERÔNIMO MONTEIROESPÍRITO SANTOIBATIBA IRUPI IBITIRAMA DSL ALEGRE APIACÁMIMOSO DO SULGUAÇUÍ SÃO JOSÉ DO CALÇADO BOM JESUS ​​FROM THE NORTH OF RIVER PRETOIÚNA MUNIZ FREIRE CASTELO VARGEM ALTA ITAPEMIRIM MARATAÍZES PRESIDENT KENNEDYCACHOEIRO DE ITAPEMIRIM ATÍLIO VIVÁCQUAJM MUQUIIn 1992, we joined Sicredi, becoming part of the national system, with specialized companies and financial instruments that increase the security of our members and strengthen our local operations. Another important milestone in our history occurred in 2010, when the cooperatives Sicredi Grande Santa Rosa, Sicredi Serro Azul and Sicredi Missões came together, forming Sicredi União RS. Ten years later, we concluded an important moment in history: physical presence in all 39 municipalities in the region where we operate in Rio Grande do Sul and on December 3, 2020, the associates approved, in an Extraordinary Assembly, the expansion of our activities to southern region of the state of Espírito Santo, changing the area of ​​operation to another 22 municipalities. As a result, the Cooperative was renamed Credit, Savings and Investment Union – Sicredi União RS/ES. In 2015, as part of the centenary celebrations of Sicredi União RS/ES, a monument in honor of Cooperativism was delivered to the community, installed in the Central Square of the municipality of Cerro Largo/RS, where this story began. Built by Uruguayan sculptor Gustavo Nackle, it is made up of seven statues, of men and women, representing the people who began to build this story. They also represent the seven principles of cooperativism, the ideals of union and collaboration of this philosophy, symbolized by the support of a large stone with the symbol of cooperativism, which is carried by everyone together. The statues are in bronze and life size.20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Dileta Koscheck, associate from Tucunduva/RS, with the agency's collaborator.21 Sicredi 03Chapter Highlights 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Let's remember what we built together in 2021, now bringing some highlights and our results. It was a year of recovery. We returned to some routines, experienced the new normal, met people we love and little by little we returned to dreaming of a reality closer to what we had. We remain solid, innovative, seeking opportunities and doing our best in every situation to serve our members with excellence and be present in the community. Every year we believe that we can improve our world a little more with the power of cooperation.• We put our flag in the state of Espírito Santo with the opening, in December, of three agencies: Cachoeiro de Itapemirim Centro and Jones dos Santos Neves, in Cachoeiro do Itapemirim and an agency in Marataízes. In addition to the inauguration, in September, of a business office at the Commercial, Industrial and Services Association of Cachoeiro de Itapemirim (ACISCI). • In Rio Grande do Sul, we opened new spaces for the agency in Santo Cristo/RS and for the agency in Entre-Ijuís and delivered four new business offices to the community: in Santo Ângelo city hall; at Santa Rosa City Hall; at the Association of Retired Workers and Pensioners of São Borja (ATAPESB) and in the Sulina neighborhood in Santa Rosa. • The business office in Bairro Sulina in Santa Rosa is the first service point with an innovative sustainability concept, as it was installed inside a container. • We concluded the Promotion Together for the Local Economy. From September 2020 to March 2021, the Cooperative distributed more than R$1.3 million in prizes, that is, 2,158 prizes, divided into 2,134 credit cards worth R$500.00 per municipality in the area of ​​operation, in addition to 12 credit cards worth R$ 10,000 and 12 savings cards worth R$ 10,000 distributed throughout the region of operation.• We expanded the Relationship and Business Center for Members in addition to service via WhatsApp and included service via telephone calls to members, via number (51) 3358-4770. • We distributed more than R$35 million in results to associates and the community. • We allocated 1.7 million to the Social Fund, covering projects from non-profit institutions. More than 400 projects were registered and 238 benefited in the areas of health, environment, education, security and sport. • We promote DIA C together with cooperatives from the same sector and other sectors. The “Cooperation that Feeds” campaign collected 62 tons of food that They were intended for socially vulnerable families and entities in the region. • We started the CoopeRAÇÃO movement on social media to mobilize the community in our area of ​​activity to make a difference for animals, contributing to a better life for all living beings. The action seeks to raise awareness around the cause and has already donated a ton of food to animal protection NGOs associated with Sicredi União RS/ES. 22 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES You Did you know?• We participated in the National Financial Education Week of the Central Bank of Brazil, reinforcing our financial education actions for more than 6,300 people. • We expanded the activities of the A União Faz a Vida Program. There are 27 municipalities, 82 schools, totaling 10,697 students, 1,016 educators and R$864 thousand in investments. • We offer our members, especially those in the agribusiness sector, a live broadcast with shows and information. • For the second year, we held the meeting virtually, and we had the participation of six thousand members connected virtually to contribute to decisions about the future of our Cooperative. • We also support the development of the region's economy through the Sindilojas: Compre Aqui campaign, which encourages local purchasing and will have more than half a million in prizes (shopping vouchers and bonuses) for consumers and salespeople from stores participating in the campaign.• It has arrived the Toll Ticket Tag and Sicredi Parking, a payment method developed in partnership with the Taggy brand, which can be used at toll booths with automatic gates, without having to stop at a ticket booth or get out of the vehicle. • In 2021 we piloted the systemic implementation of recycling ATMs, that is, those that receive cash deposits without an envelope and with the amount credited instantly. Still in 2021, we approved the pilot and started with this system in four agencies. • We have 307 associates with the Sicredi digital account, Woop, which simplifies the way you take care of your money and also helps your region, and everything is done via cell phone. 23 Highlights 2021 Find out how to use it by watching the video here. To watch, read the QR Code or click here.24 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES • In May 2021 we started deposits via WhatsApp Enterprise and Internet Banking and by the end of the year we had 936 deposits through the channels, of which: 354 in Internet Banking and 582 on WhatsApp. • We launch the Sicredi ESG Investment Fund, which is a new option for investors interested in applications aligned with sustainability practices. • Sicredi has joined Open Finance, so members and/or users of other financial institutions that also join Open Finance can choose to share their data with the institution of their choice, so that institution can see the services you are using and thus can offer you more advantageous and fairer rates. This gives you access, for example, to easier credit, higher limits and services more aligned with your financial reality.• In 2021, we carried out the Climate Survey using the GPTW (Great Place to Work) methodology, for its relevance and comparability with the market. The survey took place between July and August, with the participation of 87% of employees and resulted in an 89% trust index, certifying the Sicredi União RS/ES as an excellent place to work, as employees have pride, credibility and feel collaborative at work. • We reached the mark of 869 employees, 814 in Rio Grande do Sul and 55 in Espírito Santo. • We held the second Employee Convention virtually. • In July, AgroMOVE - Guided Mentorship Aiming at Entrepreneurship in Agro - started, a mentoring program carried out free of charge by ACISAP with the sponsorship of Sicredi União RS/ES, which aims to encourage entrepreneurship in agribusiness, and is aligned with the purpose of the cooperative in the countryside: assisting and supporting the development of members and rural producers. The first class will graduate in May 2022. Did you know? Want to know more, read the QR Code or click here. Want to know more, read the QR Code or click here. If you want to know more and understand the step-by-step process of sharing this data, visit our website or read the QR Code or click here. If you want to know more about AgroMOVE, read the QR Code or click here.25 Highlights 2021 • Sicredi has a virtual card available in the app for virtual purchases, which brings greater security to your data in transactions. • Through the Sicredi App you can also pay bills, make PIX, transfers, increase your credit card limit, make withdrawals without a card, among other functions. • In 2021, Sicredi was recognized as the best institution application finance in Brazil. Research by Buzzmonitor revealed that the application is ranked first among all financial institutions on Google Play. Sicredi scored 94 out of 100, out of a total of just over 8.4 thousand reviews. • We were awarded in December at the SomosCoop Awards – Excellence in Management – ​​2021 Cycle. The Cooperative competed in the “Commitment to Excellence” category, and received the bronze award. • We started the review of the Strategic Planning, with a group of 35 people, made up of business managers, agency managers, financial administrative managers, Headquarters managers, directors, directors, counselors and core coordinators. The work is being developed through periodic meetings, studying the drivers and priorities of the Sicredi System and analyzing the opportunities and needs of Sicredi União RS/ES' area of ​​activity. If you want to know more, watch the video, read the QR Code or Click here. Per So, to find out everything about the application, read the QR Code or click here. Groups discussing the future of the Cooperative. Strategic planning group in one of the meetings. Idea building activity. Our results We believe in the power of credit cooperatives to generate positive changes in society. Therefore, at the same time that we evolve to meet the needs of an increasingly dynamic and digital environment, with growth above the market, we also We maintain our roots in the principles and values ​​of cooperativism, which have inspired our business for 119 years. Through our actions we generate value and transform the communities where we are present, reaffirming the cooperative ideal of our founders. It is a virtuous cycle that promotes economic, social and environmental development, contributing to the sustainable development of our society. This transformation only happens because the resources we capture from our members are transformed into credit for other members of the same Cooperative. This process guarantees the permanence of resources in the region, promoting the local economy, stimulating income generation, strengthening business and local production, and expanding the supply of jobs. Likewise, when members understand and choose our cooperative business model to manage their financial lives, we also expand our social activities, through our own programs. Our financial solutions This year, it was necessary to closely monitor the reality of the regions where we are present to support the local economic cycle and reduce the impact of the crisis caused by Covid-19 on the lives of our associates. In this sense, we offer a broad portfolio of products, services and channels (physical and digital) that meet your financial needs. The solutions are aimed at individuals, legal entities and agribusiness, of different sizes and activities. economic. 26 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES In the next chapters we will discuss more about our solutions and you can also access our website to find out more. Read the QR Code or click here. Our non-financial solutions We also have initiatives and programs aimed at expanding our positive impact on the lives of members and communities, which help us comply with two of the seven principles of cooperativism: 5th - Education, training and information and 7th - Interest by the Community. They are implemented locally by cooperatives, with the support of Fundação Sicredi. Fundação Sicredi Fundação Sicredi aims to keep the essence of cooperativism alive in the culture of our institution through educational, cultural, social and sustainable initiatives that expand our positive impact on the lives of members and communities. Its work is structured through programs: 27 Highlights 2021 These programs are in practice in Sicredi União RS/ES. The Foundation also has the Young Committee and Women Committee programs. Our numbers Check out the main results of this virtuous cycle here and on the following pages, where you will find a general summary of the financial performance of Sicredi União RS/ES and our main positive impact indicators. 28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES CREDIT (BILLIONS OF R$) 1,932 20192,409 20203,185 2021+32.19% MEMBERS (THOUSANDS) 144,174 2019150,699 2020164,044 2021+8.86% SAVINGS (MILLION OF R$) 582,493 2019789,763 2020855,431 2021+8.31% (Includes assets and rights of the Cooperative) (Includes the Cooperative's own resources)(Includes Demand Deposit + Term Deposit + Savings + Funds + Pension + Social Capital + LCA + Other Deposits) 29 Highlights 2021 NET EQUITY (MILLION OF R$) 458,906 2019514,056 2020590,681 2021+14.91% ASSETS (BILLION OF R$) 2,381 20193,390 2020 4,061 2021+19.80% RESULT (MILLION OF R$) 91,166 201982,806 2020103,607 2021+25.12% TOTAL RESOURCES (BILLION R$) 2,115 20192,975 20203,513 2021+18.08% Availability Interﬁnancial Relations Applications Credit Operations Other Credits Other Values ​​and Permanent Assets Total Assets1,103,660,610 95,843,898 2,597,291,018 108,094,554 749,498 155,698,005 4,061,337,582-7.08% -28.07% 37.59% 35.55% -32.56% 55.07% 19.80% Demand Deposit + Collections Term Deposit Transfers Interﬁnancial Other Obligations Shareholders’ Equity Total Liabilities 546,460,369 1359881726 1418970822 .244,538 1,887,724,710 79,746,921 1,111,381 100,407,939 3,390,033,355 492,623,613 1,235,022,936 1,032,450,858 115,879,052 514,056,896 3,390,033,3552021 2020 Vari share Assets 2021 2020 Variation Liabilities Credit Income Financial Income Service Income Other Operating Income Total Income249,364,999 55,688 .807 95,929,763 1,115,425 402,098,99417.18% 92.48% 08.54% -22.78% 21.28%212,799,137 28,932,547 88,378,707 1,444,407 331,554,7982021 2020 VariationIncome Statement How Much We RaisedFinancial Statements By participating in our Cooperative, you realize, throughout the journey, the difference from being an associate. Every day we put our purpose into practice, which is increasingly present in the actions and stories that you will read in the next chapters. It is the fulfillment of our mission and the practice of our purpose that led us in 2021 to these results. Sicredi União RS/ES values ​​sustainable relationships, transparency in management and compliance with internal and external regulations, which guarantees our members the security of carrying out financial operations with a responsible company. Our structures are prepared to serve you throughout our area of ​​activity, always seeking to add income and improve the quality of life of members and society. 30 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ESIntended for 2020 Associates - 43.35% of the result: R$ 35,896,718.36 Intended for 2021 Associates - 42.01% of the result: R$ 43,525,055.76 Funding Expenses Administrative and Operational Expenses Credit Risk Expense Total Expenses100,367,379 192,981,423 5,142,563 298,491,36660.30% 19.33% -78.93% 20.00%62,611,629 161,725,101 24,411,694 248.7 48.4242021 2020 VariationStatement of Result How much we had to pay Total Revenue Total Expenses Result402,098,994 298,491,366 103,607,62921.28% 20.00% 25.12%331,554,798 248,748,424 82,806,3732021 2020 Variation Income for the Year Income for the Year (-) Interest on Capital (2.7 8% / 3 .52%) (-) Destination Legal Reserve - Recovery. Credit. in Losses from Previous Years Leftovers after Interest and Recovery Loss (-) FATES Allocation 5% (-) Legal Reserve Allocation 55% (=) Leftovers available to the AGO103,607,629 6,740,689 15,123,902 81,743,038 4,087,152 44,958. 671 32.697.21582.806.373 5,031,049 9,184,948 68,590,376 3,429,519 37,707 27,436,1502021 2020 Legal and statutory leftovers at the disposal of the Aug Additional Proposal for Fate Proposal New Associations proposed to the Social Fund (=) Results for members Destination in Application (50%) Destination of Share Capital (50%) or Destination of Share Capital (100%) 1,714. 759 25,671,391 12,835,695 12,835,695 25,671,3912021 2020 Proposal Additional Destination 31 Highlights 2021Malonek Family of Senador Salgado Filho/RS.Our sustainability strategy helps to fulfill our mission and vision, in addition to maintaining alignment with our values, providing guidelines that contribute and guide the sustainable development of our business in practice. It is guided by three sustainability drivers: • Relationships and Cooperativism • Responsible Solutions • Local DevelopmentSustainability Strategy04ChapterPromote financial education Integrate opportunities and risk management and operate with eco-efficiency Engage suppliers based on social and environmental criteriaFoster the local economy and financial inclusion Foster human, social and intellectual capital 34 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The three drivers were divided into eight focal themes, which are the core of our sustainability strategy and guide our development of projects, initiatives and systemic action plans. External Commitments Sustainability drivers Focal themes (related SDGs) Strengthen our management model Spread cooperativism and sustainability Promote diversity and inclusionRelationships and CooperativismLocal DevelopmentResponsible SolutionsIn the table below we present the focal sustainability themes and the correlation with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ).The next three Chapters will address our work and 2021 actions in each sustainability driver. Furthermore, you will notice throughout the pages the indication of which SDG (Sustainable Development Goal) each activity is related to. 35 Sustainability Strategy People Have a humanized and inclusive work culture, with pride in what we do together. Differentiation for the member Provide the best cooperative experience for the member, focusing in its development. Entrepreneurial Management Being entrepreneurial and dynamic, leading a renewed cooperative model that is relevant to society. Innovability Having the ability to always learn, to innovate and grow with associates and society. Come and learn more about the Sustainable Development Goals. Just read the QR Code or click here. Our sustainability drivers and focal themes are connected to the pillars of the 2030 inspirational strategy and to Systemic Strategic Planning 2020-2023 as they intend to contribute to the construction of a more prosperous society through the strength of cooperativism. BUILDING TOGETHER A MORE PROSPEROUS SOCIETY PROTAGONISM IN SOCIETY Be a protagonist of local and sustainable developmentAdison Behling Rutsatz, associate of Dezesseis de Novembro/RS.The cooperative model is the great differentiator of our business, with transparent, participatory and democratic management. Through it, We build a more prosperous business and society together. Find out how we generate value by strengthening cooperativism and spreading it among members and communities. Focal themes:Relationships and Cooperativism05Chapter Promote inclusion and diversityStrengthen our governance model Spread cooperativism and sustainability38 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES They link themselves and cooperatives through capital contributions and have the right to vote in the decisions of the cooperative through core assemblies, with equal weight, regardless of the volume of resources applied. They are the representatives elected by the members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. Society of people, they are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to stimulate the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing their own services. of a ﬁnancial institution a. The main link with members, they are also Sicredi's primary decision-making bodies. They disseminate credit cooperatives and supervise affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting development and expansion activities. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Nucleus coordinatorsAssociates is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation of credit cooperatives in corporate management and greater transparency in the governance structure. The Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic issues. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ Central Sicredi Brasil Centra l Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Central NorthSicredi Consortium Administrator Sicredi Insurance Broker Asset Administrator SicrediSicredi Fundos Garantidores (SFG) The purpose of SFG is to contribute to the credibility, development, solvency and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and makes products and services available through the System's centralized risk management structure and through the scaled administration of resources. Its strategic partners are Rab and Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Directors. Sicredi Confederation Provides services in Information Technology, operations, administrative services, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and administration of securities and securities portfolios. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Sicredi Foundation Its purpose is to keep the essence of cooperation alive in the culture of our institution through educational initiatives , cultural, cooperative and sustainable, adhering to the business strategy. The Sicr edi Foundation has a board of trustees. Fiscal Council Rabo P artnerships B.V. and IF C SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE College of Executive Directors Centro Administrativo Sicr edi (CAS)Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration.It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and its controlled companies, the Foundation, Sicredi Fundos Garantidor es and Confederar action. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of members.CAS — Sicredi Administrative Center Evaluates, debates and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning in all matters linked to or that may be linked to strategic planning and to the execution of this, in addition to deliberating on standards, regulations and other systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Boards. oladasConfeder action Sicredi Banco C ooper active Sicredi Cooper activeSicredi Foundation Sicredi Funds Guarantor esCentraisGRI 102 -18 Strengthen our governance model Systemic governance structure Our governance structure is recognized worldwide in the credit cooperative segment. We are organized into a System, seeking specialization in areas, reducing operational costs, enabling economies of scale and intercooperation and expanding the possibilities of meeting the demands of members. Each entity has specific responsibilities, providing efficiency gains to our strategy, decision-making and the development of internal processes, forming Sicredi.39 Relationships and Cooperativism They are linked to each other and to cooperatives through the contribution of capital and have I have the right to vote on cooperative decisions through core assemblies, with equal weight, regardless of the volume of resources applied. They are the representatives elected by members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. Society of people, they are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to stimulate the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services typical of a financial institution. Main link with associates, they are also the primary decision-making bodies of the Sicredi. Spreads credit cooperatives and supervises affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting development and expansion activities. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Nucleus coordinatorsAssociates is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation of credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to governance structure. The Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic issues. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP /RJ Central Sicredi Brasil Centra l Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Central NorthConsortium Administrator Sicredi Insurance Broker Sicredi Asset Administrator SicrediSicredi Guarantor Funds (SFG) SFG's purpose is to contribute to a to cr buildability, development, solvency and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and makes products and services available through the System's centralized risk management structure and through the scaled administration of resources. Its strategic partners are Rab, Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Directors. Confederação Sicredi Provides services in Technology Information logy, operations, administrative services, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and administration of securities and securities portfolios. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Sicredi Foundation Its purpose is to keep the essence of cooperation alive in the culture of our institution through educational, cultural, cooperative and sustainable initiatives, in line with the business strategy . The Sicr edi Foundation has a board of trustees. Fiscal Council Rabo P artnerships B.V. and IF C SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE College of Executive Directors Centro Administrativo Sicr edi (CAS)Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration.It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and its controlled companies, the Foundation, Sicredi Fundos Garantidors and Confederação. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of associates.CAS — Sicredi Administrative Center Evaluates, debates and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning in all matters linked or that may be linked to strategic planning and its execution, in addition to deliberating on standards, regulations and others systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Boards. Controlled companiesConfederation Sicredi Banco Active Cooperation Sicredi Active CooperationSicredi Foundation Sicredi Funds Guarantor esCentraisGRI 102 -18 40 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Our management is democratic. The members, through Core Assemblies, elect their representatives, the core coordinators (delegates), who in turn take the core's decisions to the General Assembly. It is also the responsibility of members to elect the Fiscal Council, made up of three effective members and an equal number of substitutes. The term of office is three years. This Council is responsible for monitoring the administration of the Cooperative. Members also elect the members of the Board of Directors, the body responsible for the Cooperative's strategy and for choosing the Executive Board, which takes care of the executive management of the business. At Sicredi União RS/ES, the Board of Directors is made up of a president, a vice-president and ten advisors. The term of office is four years with a minimum renewal, each term, of 1/3 of the members. The Executive Board is made up of a director executive, a business director and an operations director. LOCAL GOVERNANCE Core Coordinators (elect) Associates (elect) Cooperative Fiscal Council Cooperative Board of Directors President Vice President (select) Board of Directors Executive Director Director of Operations Business Director41 Relationship and Cooperativism Executive Board GIOVANI JOHN Executive Director JOELMIR GUSTAVO WINCK Director of Business FERNANDO REICHERT HAAS Director of OperationsBoard of Directors 2018/2022 SIDNEI STREJEVITCH President EVELIZE SCHMITH MOMBACH Advisor NARDELI GEBERT CASSEL Advisor ENIO SCHEID Vice-President EVERALDO SOMMER KOHL Advisor ROSELANGE TERESINHA DELLA FLORA Advisor BRENO ELY Advisor FÁBIO RIBEIRO DORNELLES Advisor TEREZINHA SCHMATZ VIER Advisor EURICO CARLOS KNEBEL Advisor MILTON JOSÉ BRUINSMA Advisor VITALINO BALSAN Advisor Fiscal Council 2020/2023 CLARICE BERWANGER Advisor JOSÉ GUILHERME PRETTO Advisor PAULO CESAR SCHAEFER Advisor42 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Core assemblies are the maximum moment of participation, in which associates take the lead and participate in decisions that affect the direction of the business. In them, the main themes are debated and deliberated, representatives are elected, accountability is approved and the distribution of results is decided, among other issues. Decisions are taken by their core coordinators (delegates) to the Ordinary General Assembly (AGO). Driven by innovation and in response to the pandemic, in 2021, the Cooperative held the Core Assembly digitally, with the participation of more than seven thousand members. The Ordinary General Assembly was also held online again. At the Assemblies, it was discussed: 1. Provision of accounts for the year ended December 31, 2020, comprising: a) report management; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of leftovers; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Approval of the beginning of relationships with municipalities located in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, their bodies, entities and companies. 4. Update of the Compliance Policy and Internal Audit Standard. 5. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature).Assemblies Core Assembly transmitted online. 43 Relationship and Cooperativism Nucleus Coordinator The nucleus coordinator is a member elected at an assembly to promote, on a voluntary basis, the cooperative's dialogue with other members. Its role is to mobilize members for meetings, keeping them informed about the cooperative's news, and to be the voice of the community where it operates, bringing demands that support local development. During the general assemblies, he represents the other members of his group, at which point he is called a delegate. Through the Pertencer Program, the aim is to encourage the participation of members in assemblies and in cooperative decision-making processes, strengthening transparency and democracy in the System. Through it, we engage members, establish the rules of participation and guide our participatory management model. We are increasingly improving the control process and systemic monitoring of all stages of the meetings and better management of each nucleus, with biometric registration of associates' presence, greater speed in data synchronization and integration with the new banking core, in line with our digital transformation process. In this way, we guarantee more agility at assemblies, reduce bureaucratic processes and allow members to focus more on what really matters: their participation in the management of the organization. cooperative.Ethics and combating corruption We are committed to meeting the legal and regulatory requirements inherent to the segment in which we operate. We seek to integrate this requirement into our business environment, promoting an organizational culture that values ​​ethics and integrity, aimed at preserving our image and reputation. The values ​​and principles of cooperativism underlie our operations since the origins of the business and govern our sustainable development. Those values ​​and principles are described in the Code of Conduct and Internal Regulations, influencing the behavior of all people who, directly or indirectly, are part of the cooperative. The Code of Conduct provides a map of values ​​and a set of guidelines that serve as a reference for moral and ethical conduct. All employees are made aware of the Code of Conduct upon admission. During your onboarding process, we offer online training on the Code through our digital platform Sicredi Aprendi. At the end of the training, each employee electronically registers their acceptance of the content of the document, which is available to be consulted at any time on our intranet. We also carry out training and qualifications, such as the Compliance and Money Laundering Crime Prevention courses, with the aim of acting in accordance with our guidelines and rules and raising awareness among our employees about the importance of preventing and combating illicit acts. In terms of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, we are committed to complying with the international recommendations of the Financial Action Group against Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (GAFI/FATF) and complying with current regulations, preventing the Cooperative is used as a means to commit illegal acts.44 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Monitoring for Prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is carried out for all Sicredi System entities. Regarding products and services, we adopt practices to inhibit misconduct and illicit acts, as well as complying with anti-corruption standards. The Cooperative understands that preventing and combating corruption and other acts harmful to public administration (national or foreign), as well as private entities, are essential for a society and for a healthy, ethical and efficient business environment. Digital security Until recently, when we thought about security, we immediately referred to padlocks, bars, locks, in short, physical barriers that guaranteed that we would be protected from attacks. However, in an increasingly digitalized world, this feeling of protection takes on another connotation, and security is no longer just physical. Digital Security has become increasingly prominent, mainly due to diversification of scams and fraud committed electronically. It covers the entire digital environment where the user's purchase or access is made, that is, transactions at ATMs, purchases with cards, payment of bills over the internet and access to internet banking or applications on cell phones. Considering that scams and fraud are increasingly sophisticated, at Sicredi we use techniques that help us verify whether an associate has been or is being a victim of electronic crimes. Our system Transaction monitoring helps us identify when there are unusual financial movements or without the member's consent, which may indicate that the account holder is being the victim of electronic fraud on their account. This aims to raise our level of digital security and also prevent this type of attack. Regarding scams, such as tempting offers or false billing slips, our actions aim to prevent the diverted amount from being compromised in other operations or financial institutions. Therefore, we try with the financial institutions involved to recover the amount or suspend payment, if it is still possible. Everything so that the loss to the member is as little as possible. The protection of our associates' banking and personal data is fundamental. And, to ensure the care that this information deserves, a Digital Security Booklet is available on the Sicredi website containing tips to avoid fraud and scams. Read the QR Code or click here to see the booklet.45 Relationships and Cooperativism The values ​​and principles of cooperativism are the great differentiator of our business, supporting our sustainability strategy. We know that, by promoting the topic, we reinforce the democratic, transparent, supportive, egalitarian, honest and responsible culture of our business model, strengthening bonds of trust and reciprocity. Given the difficulties generated by the Covid-19 pandemic, social responsibility actions began to gain even more importance. As a result, in 2021, Day C (Cooperate Day), a movement organized nationally by the Brazilian Cooperative Organization (OCB), which mobilizes the segment with the objective of developing social responsibility actions, putting into practice the values ​​and principles of cooperativism, sought to help society minimize impacts from food collection. In the northwest regions and missions, we carried out an intercooperation movement, uniting with cooperatives from different segments to carry out the Cooperação que Alimenta campaign, collecting 62 tons of food that were destined for socially vulnerable families and entities in the region. In addition to Sicredi União RS/ES, the cooperatives that participated in the campaign were: Cerdições, Coopatrigo, CooperConcórdia, Coopermil, Coopervino, Cooperoque, Cotripal, C.Vale, Cotrirosa, Cresol, Sicoob, Unicred, Unimed Missões and Unimed Fronteira Noroeste. Spreading cooperativism and sustainability Spreading Cooperativism Delivery of food in the municipality of Salvador das Missões/RS. Representatives of Cooperatives delivering food in Campina das Missões/RS.46 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Other movements that contribute to the dissemination of Cooperatives are the agreements signed with other institutions in the community, which we will see below: Rural Workers Unions (STR) The partnership aims to better serve Sicredi and STR members by enabling producers to forward their credit operations directly to the Union, further contributing to strengthening the entity in the development of family farming. We have the agreement in 34 municipalities in our area of ​​operation. The Vitória das Missões Union is one of those that has the agreement and the president tells us the importance of this partnership: “Great I am pleased to have an agreement with Sicredi, as this made it possible to greatly strengthen our agriculture in the municipality, especially looking for new members. We are able to facilitate and speed up the contracting of credit lines. In addition to us, the union, and Sicredi, being closer to our members”, emphasized Ronaldo Schunke, president of the Rural Workers Union of Vitória das Missões. Unimed Missões Agreement The agreement allows all members who purchase Health Plans with Unimed Missões to receive a 5% discount on the value of the health plan. With this agreement, we add income by providing this benefit and enabling more people to have a medical plan, bringing more comfort and security. City Hall Agreement This partnership that has brought the cooperative business model to public servants is the payroll agreement with city halls, enabling us to be closer and contributing to add income to the servers’ families. In 2021, we concluded the year with 31 municipalities in our area of ​​operation having agreements. Develop Program Thinking about the development of microentrepreneurs in our area of ​​activity, we created the Develop Program, in partnership with municipal management. This is a line of credit created to encourage small entrepreneurs, so that they can expand their businesses, bringing even more growth to the environment in which they operate. The partnership is currently active in Santa Rosa/RS and Cândido Godói/RS. Partnership with vehicle dealers and CDC Lojista With the aim of facilitating the realization of the dreams of people and companies, the Cooperative has, since 2018, had a team of professionals working with Vehicle Dealers, directing association processes and financing analysis in the moment when the business is being carried out, simplifying and making our service even closer. In 2021, We started to take the same service format to other associated companies, through CDC Lojista, an even more comprehensive solution that will serve any business segment with our credit lines, further expanding our presence in the municipalities in our area of ​​operation. SEBRAE Partnership Looking at the development of small businesses, we signed a partnership with SEBRAE, paying for advisory services in several areas chosen by the company itself, such as, digital marketing, cash flow organization, among others.47 Relationships and Cooperatives This is our cooperative education program. Through it, we bring knowledge about cooperativism to all audiences that interact with our business. We offer training that expands the understanding of cooperative societies, their operation, benefits and differences in relation to other financial institutions. Training is carried out for employees, Belmiro Adamski, associate of Guarani das Missões/RS.associados, nucleus coordinators and counselors. In 2021, we had 1,094 associates trained in the Program. In this program, we work with the Welcome, which is carried out at the time of association. This is one of the most important moments we have with our members, presenting the Cooperative, explaining what it means to be a member, clarifying doubts and talking about cooperative business. It is an individual moment, in which the agency employee will be available to introduce Sicredi and clarify the new member’s first doubts. The Story of Belmiro de Guarani das Missões/RS Here we bring the story of Belmiro Adamski who participated in Welcome in 2021. He became our associate bringing his personal account to Sicredi. However, due to the service and presentation he received from Sicredi, he soon decided to expand his relationship with us and also brought an account from his company Belmiro Manutenções Industriais, making it an associate and our partner. “I chose Sicredi because it was a good alternative, with differentiated service. We have formed some very cool partnerships where Sicredi encouraged me to expand my company”, said the associate. Therefore, we will always support the member and the company in their needs and future projects. More than 130 companies were included in 2021, having assistance in growth and overcoming difficulties in a year of pandemic. 48 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The term sustainability emerged in the 1980s, initiated by an awareness that countries needed to find ways to boost their economic growth, without harming the environment to guarantee the well-being of future generations. We understand sustainability as business management with a focus on expanding the positive impact we cause, reducing adverse impacts and generating value for associates, employees, communities and other interested parties. Sustainability seeks to integrate social, environmental and economic aspects, treating them as interdependent. These three premises are recognized as the three pillars of sustainability.Social EnvironmentalEconomic Sustainability Comprises natural capital, which concerns relationships with the environment and its natural resources. Incorporating environmental protection and conservation actions and mitigating impacts generated in the operation. How it applies: Management of water and energy use, waste management prioritizing recycling, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, offering more sustainable products and services, etc. Understands the c human capital, which refers to activities that maintain mutually beneficial relationships with the Institutions' stakeholders, such as: collaborators, associates, suppliers, community, government, among others. It also incorporates the fight against inequalities, the promotion of equity, access to opportunities, social well-being and quality of life. How it applies: Working standards and conditions, social responsibility in products and services, social investment, distribution of results, etc. Corresponds to economic development activities, that is, obtaining results positive economic benefits of the company. How it applies: Results, job creation, attraction of associates, cost reduction, anticipation and management of risks and pursuit of long-term competitiveness. social in communities, Sicredi is a member of the UN Global Compact, contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2021, we neutralized 21 thousand tons of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) at a national level, through support for five different carbon credit projects, one in each region of Brazil. Sicredi used as selection criteria projects that have positive social, environmental and economic impacts, audited and certified and that follow internationally recognized quality standards, in addition to contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The institution had its 2020 Sustainability Report awarded at the 23rd Award from the Brazilian Association of Public Companies (Abrasca), which highlights the improvement of reporting with greater clarity, transparency, quality of information and innovative and sustainable character. Our sustainability strategy is systemically driven by the Sustainability Policy and the Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy. The Sustainability Policy aims to establish principles and guidelines to guide decision-making in all the business spheres and in the relationship with interested parties, considering the economic, social and environmental opportunities and challenges, which involve themes relevant to sustainability. The Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy seeks to establish guidelines for managing socio-environmental risks and prevent the occurrence of financial, legal or reputational losses arising from socio-environmental damages, taking into account the recommendations of the Central Bank. Nessa new version, its scope has been expanded to include other products in addition to credit concessions. Our sustainability strategy helps to fulfill our mission and vision, in addition to maintaining alignment with our values, providing guidelines that contribute to and guide the sustainable development of our business in practice. It is guided by three sustainability drivers: Relationships and Cooperativism; Responsible Solutions and Local Development. What is ESG? In recent years, the agenda known as ESG – Environmental, Social and Governance –, in Portuguese ASG – Environmental, Social and Governance – has grown exponentially around the world. The acronym ranges from criteria for investments, implementation of governance policies in companies and public institutions, to social impacts of economic policies or areas of corporate activity. It has been used to refer to business and investment practices that are concerned with sustainability criteria – and not just with profit. The Environment criterion looks at how the company operates in nature management. Social examines whether the organization violates universal human rights, monitoring the company's relationships between workers, suppliers and the communities where they operate. The assessment of Governance involves business management practices linked to combating corruption and compliance.50 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES In the market scenario financial, ESG gradually loses the mistaken classification of philanthropy to become a determining part of portfolio allocation decisions based on risk, return and asset diversification criteria. In this context, the importance and innovative nature of Sicredi's strategies become evident, based on its cooperative ideals and values. The concept of sustainability is one of the pillars of the institution and one of its main differentiators competitive. Since its inception, Sicredi has focused on promoting sustainable practices as essential values. Sustainability Committee at Sicredi União RS/ES A very important step in the Cooperative's work on sustainability was the creation of the Committee. The Sicredi União RS/ES committee was launched in July 2021 and aims to evaluate, debate and recommend local initiatives related to the topic of sustainability, considering the sustainability of the System. Since its formation, the committee has also prioritized the implementation of these intentions, whether through communication of what the Cooperative already accomplishes, or by raising awareness among employees, members and the community, or by implementing sustainable projects and actions in all of the institution's processes. Mainly, it has been dedicated to studying the topic, with the participation of three members in the Sustainability Management course offered by Central Sicredi South/Southeast and taught by Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FGV). Sustainability Committee composed of collaborators: Carine Buchholz, Juliani Thomaz, Karen Nickel, Jéssica Manjabosco and Deisi Fabrim.51 Relationships and Cooperativism We seek to build a diverse and inclusive environment, which values ​​and respects people as they are. This construction aims not only to make our spaces emotionally safe for the employees who make up the institution's current staff, but also It shows future talents that we are open to different people, ideas and ways. We have a responsibility to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities for employment and growth, regardless of their social class, sexual orientation, age, gender, race, physique, culture, accent, religion or disability. In line with our commitment to the Global Compact, we understand the topic of diversity and inclusion as fundamental to the development of society and to the sustainability of our business. From the selection process for new employees, we keep a close eye on the search for talent from different locations, backgrounds and realities. In July 2021, in the Sicredi União RS/ES Climate Survey, 87% of employees (permanent employees, interns and young apprentices) responded to the survey and reported the following: 35% of leading employees are women. The diversity of our membership is a natural characteristic of our business model, direct consequence of the principle of Free and Voluntary Membership cooperativism. In this evolution, we encourage the participation of different members in the group of core coordinators, who are representatives of the other members in meetings and general meetings. They are the link between the Cooperative and members/community. The core coordinators are the leaders who may be on the Cooperative's Board of Directors in the future. This, in turn, seeks a mixture with the inclusion of young people, women, professions and different locations, in order to obtain different ideas and perspectives for the Cooperative's strategy and actions. We closed 2021 with 513 core coordinators, 27.68% women and 72.32% men. In the age group, 8.96% are 30 years old or younger. SEXUAL ORIENTATIONS Asexual 1.11% Bisexual 0.80% Heterosexual 89.00% Homosexual 3.34% Other 5.75% GENDER Female 57.50% Male 39, 40% Others 3.10% (Others, I prefer not to answer, not identified) (Non- binary, unidentified, fluid gender, variable between the feminine and masculine spectrum) COLOR OR ETHNICITY Yellow 1.12% White 90.14% Indigenous 1.27% Brown 4.92% Black 1.12% Other 1.43% ( Others, I prefer not to answer, unidentified) AGE GROUP Up to 20 years old 4.48% 21 to 30 years old 30.95% 31 to 40 years old 42.34% Over 40 years old 22.23%Promoting inclusion and diversityCarla and Lara Tavora Brazil, associates of Marataízes/ES.Responsible Solutions06Chapter Working with suppliers and management partners sustainable Promote financial educationOffer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Promote eco-efficient management Ensure integrated risk management In line with our sustainable principles and commitments, our products and services support the prosperity of the member, who is the owner of business. At the same time, in our operations, we seek to mitigate negative socio-environmental impacts and strengthen positive impacts. Themes focal points:54 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact We have a broad portfolio of products, services and channels that support prosperity and meet the financial needs of our members. The solutions are aimed at individuals, legal entities and agribusiness, of the most different sizes and economic activities. Associates prosper when they use financial solutions suited to your moment in life. Therefore, product and service offerings are made to generate value for the member, the business owner. We are also committed to operating responsibly, following good sustainable corporate management practices. Thus, we identify opportunities and manage our social, environmental and economic risks, at the same time as we take care of the financial resources invested by the associate, ensuring the continuity of our business. Andressa Lais Reimann, associate from Catuípe/RS who won the Life Insurance draw. In addition to the members guaranteeing peace of mind and protection for themselves and their families, cash prizes can be drawn. The draws take place through the federal lottery among members who have insurance contracted with the Cooperative, and make it possible to compete for prizes of up to R$50,000 for Seguro Mais em Vida. For your company • Foreign exchange; • Corporate Cards; •  • Charge; • Consortia; • Current account; • Credit; • Credit for investment • • Domicile banking; • Financing; • • Investments; • Card machine; • Corporate pension; • Pix (instant payments); New! • Insurance; For your agricultural business • Foreign exchange; • Credit and Debit Card; • • Consortia; • Current Account; •  • Rural credit; • Financing; • Investments; • Payments and Receiving; • Pix (instant payments); New! • Savings; • Insurance. Channels • Agencies; • Agent is accredited; • Sicredi application; • Sicredi X application; New! • ATM (own network, • Internet Banking; • Telephone services; • New! For you • Foreign exchange; • Credit and Debit Card; • • Credit (personal, vehicles and real estate); • Consortiums; • Current Account; • Digital Account (Woop Sicredi);  New! • Automatic debit; • Authorized direct debit; • Investments; • Payments and receipts; • Pix (instant payments);  New! • Savings; • Social Security; • Insurance. • Payment and receipt solutions. 55 Responsible Solutions56 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The Story of André de Rolador/RS André de Camargo, our associate in the municipality of Rolador, spoke with us numerous times about the possibility of canceling his life insurance, seen by it as an unnecessary cost at times when your financial situation was more delicate. However, acting as consultants and always prioritizing indicating the best path for associates, our employees always advised André to maintain the operation, as he might need it in the future. At the end of last year, André was surprised by the news that he had skin cancer, and at a time when treatment through the public network was not easy. “It was the end of the year, starting treatment through the SUS was going to be difficult. I had to do it myself and then I had insurance. So, everything worked out.” So, he can benefit from insurance compensation and feel much more at ease when carrying out procedures, paying for them and, most importantly, avoiding worsening of the disease. “It was a benefit to my health, with the help of Sicredi”, he explains. André de Camargo, associate from Rolador/RS. André used Life Insurance: With Sicre-di insurance you guarantee more convenience. There are coverages and services that adapt to your lifestyle, in addition to specific assistance that guarantees more comfort for you and your family. Find out more about Life Insurance by reading the QR Code or click here. For over 108 years, we have contributed to adding income and improving the quality of life of our members and society through financial solutions. But the result is much greater than the financial, it is the realization of dreams. Discover some stories that show the positive impact we generated in 2021.57 Responsible Solutions The story of Izanir de São Luiz Gonzaga/RS Always be Kind, cordial and welcoming everyone with a smile on your face is one of the things we like most about work. Mr. Izanir Nilson de Souza, our associate from São Luiz Gonzaga, shares this feeling and therefore received credit from our Cooperative for a dental treatment that gave him back his smile. “I have always had many privileges here at Sicredi. I managed to straighten my teeth, which was difficult. I am grateful to God for having the Sicredi family close to me, they lives inside my heart.” After the operation, he went to the agency to thank everyone who was part of this big change in his life from table to table. “It’s a team of professionals who always serve us very well. Sometimes I'm a little sad or a little distressed, but I get here and I'm very well received.” Izanir Nilson de Souza, associate from São Luiz Gonzaga/RS, with agency collaborator. Izanir used INSS Payroll Credit: The INSS Payroll credit line is a type of loan that supports social security beneficiaries. For your convenience, the amount is deposited directly into the current account where you receive your benefit and the installments are deducted directly from it. Find out more about this type of credit by reading the QR Code or click here.58 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The History of Guido from Caibaté/RS Guido Sauzen, from Caibaté, has been our associate for over 30 years, finding our cooperative support to carry out the various projects, carrying them out in a full and financially healthy manner. “I always have the “who”, “how” and “when” in my life plans, deciding who is going to do it, how to do it and when I am going to do it. For me, these three little words are the key to each person’s success.” During the construction of a new project, which began with its own resources, it sought the partnership of our Cooperative to complete the construction. He highlights the how important your manager was to carry out the negotiation in the healthiest way for your financial life. “We have been discussing the issue for hours with Cláudio do Sicredi and then we obtained this funding to complete this building.” Thus, through financing with property guarantees, Guido guaranteed the completion of the building with three apartments and a commercial space, currently heading towards the final phase of the work. In addition to the good conditions and the concern to offer solutions for his benefit, Guido believes in service as one of Sicredi's high points. “The partnership between us has always been about serious, honest treatment, one working for the other and this is what is interesting about the associate's relationship with employees and management: always treat the person with seriousness, honesty and humility”, he explains. “This is not the first financing I have done and I have always received very good service and I have always been very satisfied with the service here from Sicredi.” Guido Sauzen, associate from Caibaté/RS. Guido used Credit with property guarantee: This line of credit meets investment and personal needs, using the property as guarantee for the operation. Find out more about Credit by reading the QR Code or click here.59 Responsible Solutions The story of the Brehm family from Alecrim/RS Soy is a fundamental crop for the economic development of the Northwest region of Rio Grande do Sul, where many groups of producers carry out this cultivation. The Brehm Family is one of these groups and, thinking about improving their work, they began planning and negotiating to acquire a new harvester. As soon as they sought partnership with our Cooperative, they were able to carry out a collective financing operation for the purchase and start using the machine during the current harvest. “In addition to speeding up harvesting, it is also comfort for the operator and agility throughout the service. It is very good." explains Lírio Brehm. Grateful for the new acquisition, Lírio explains how good the service here at Sicredi was for them from the beginning. “We can never explain how well they were served. We were well received at Sicredi by both employees and the manager, and everything went well with everyone getting involved so we could finance it.” Brehm family from Alecrim/RS. The Brehm family used the Credit - called MODERFROTA (Modernization Program for the Fleet of Agricultural Tractors and Agricultural Implements and Harvesters). It is a line of credit for financing new and used agricultural machinery, equipment and implements, as well as harvesting - new and used harvesters and cutting platforms. Find out more about credit for agro-business by reading the QR Code or click here.60 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The story of Dileta from Tucunduva/RS Dileta Koscheck, or Dona Dileta, as she is known, is an example of a woman warrior, determined and fighter. Been through a lot adversities in his life, but he still stands firm. As she herself says, her “big hands” are also calloused from so much hard work. “You have to get up early, it's still a little dark, don't even drink chimarrão and go straight away to treat the animals, then have a quick coffee, grab the machines and go to the farm. It’s a very challenging life but I like it, I love it.” Our member since 2001, Dona Dileta recognizes her strength, and always counts on the partnership of our Cooperative. “I'm together with them in battle. They are helping me with financing the machines, the tractor, the warehouses, covering these needs that we need here in the field.” Dileta Koscheck, associate from Tucunduva/RS. Dileta has already used several lines of credit to develop her agribusiness. Check out the possibilities that Sicredi offers for those who want to undertake and prosper in the field, like her. Read the QR Code or click here and check out the credit lines for agribusiness.61 Responsible Solutions The story of Adison de Dezesseis de Novembro/RS Having been in contact with the activity since he was very young, when he accompanied some deliveries made by his father, Adison Behling Rutsatz made private truck freight work his lifestyle and his generation of income. “It’s what we like to do,” he tells us. In 2020, after talking to our employees about the possibility of financing for heavy loads, the consortium was suggested to him, an option which he ended up choosing because of the cost-benefit it could have. “I received very good service from them, from the people there at Sicredi. We signed a very good contract, quickly. I just have to thank them.” Thus, Adison managed to acquire the asset much earlier than he imagined. In September 2021, he placed a bid in his consortium and after negotiations he was awarded the award, realizing his dream of having a complete 4x4 truck for all types of cargo. “I managed to make a I dream of having a newer truck, and thus, having more comfort to work, having more agility in service and arriving earlier for deliveries”, explained the associate. In addition to purchasing the truck, Adison insured it with our Cooperative. Adison Behling Rutsatz, associate of Dezesseis de Novembro/RS. Adison used the Consortium of Trucks, Tractors and Utilities - Unlike a loan, the consortium works like a programmed savings, and you can acquire your truck, tractor or utility vehicle from contemplation by drawing or bidding. Find out more about the Consortium options by reading the QR Code or click here.62 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The story of Odete de Santo Antônio das Missões/RS Odete Lopes Alves always dreamed of being a professional hairdresser and studied a lot, completing countless courses in the area of ​​beauty to achieve this goal. Ten years ago, after qualifying, she decided to invest in this dream and opened the own beauty salon where she now works with her daughter, always counting on the Cooperative's partnership to facilitate operations. “I had difficulty with customers because I didn’t have a card machine. They arrived here asking if I had the PIX and I didn't have it, if I had a card, I didn't have it. Then I thought, ‘today I’m going to Sicredi’. When I got there I was treated very well and I said I wanted to open PIX for the salon, for my clients.” Odete says that she received all the help from the employees, who were available to guide her on how to use PIX. “At first, I had doubts. It wasn't like I picked it up and started doing it. Then Jonas at Sicredi told me: ‘Soon you’ll end up doing everything. PIX is wonderful and I will help you. You call me or come here, I’m available.’ And really, it was really good.” Today, she says that she uses PIX very easily for herself and the salon's clients, grateful for the help she received from Sicredi. "As PIX, more clients came to my salon, for sure.” Odete Lopes Alves, associate of Santo Antônio das Missões/RS. Odete uses Pix - It is an instant payment method, developed by the Central Bank, to make it easier for you to transfer, pay and receive, at any time or day of the week, with no limit on the number of transactions. With Pix, you only use one piece of data to transact: it can be your CPF, CNPJ, email or cell phone number. All these options They are called keys and you can register yours through the Sicredi apps. Find out more by reading the QR Code or click here.63 Responsible Solutions The story of Hilário de Alecrim/RS Hilário César Eich lives in Alecrim and has been our associate for over 12 years, counting on our partnership especially in loans and financing for his property. “Sicredi never abandoned me, he always helped me.” Hilário also worked with another financial institution, but later dissatisfied with the institution in which he maintained his investments, he also decided to migrate his applications to our Cooperative, counting from the beginning on the guidance of our employees. “When I took the money from another bank, Sicredi helped me with a better investment. Now I have an investment in pensions in which they kept their word and even spent a little more than they promised.” With investment returns being higher than expected, Hilário can now Hilário used the investment solutions, read the QR Code or click here and discover all the options that Sicredi makes available to all members according to each one's objective. enjoy the peace of mind and partnership of knowing that your money is paying off. “I am very calm and very happy, guaranteeing a better future not only for myself, but also for my wife and children.” In addition to the support he has always received, he values ​​good service and friendship you have with our employees. “The service is 100%, you could say it's like being at home, when you talk to friends. They never left me aside, I was always well attended to”, she explains. Hilário César Eich, associate from Alecrim/RS, and his wife Lídia Schmitt. Investing in Sicredi yields a better world Just like Hilário, when investing, members can count on specialized advice at Sicredi União RS/ES. The Cooperative has a team of professionals specializing in investments, certified by ANBIMA - Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities. They are able to provide close, active and uncomplicated advice, aiming to contribute to investment strategies, with solutions suited to the profile and objectives of each member, always seeking the best results. We have the ideal investment solutions for everyone. Here the member will find the investment products you need, with all the advantages of being part of a cooperative financial institution. Furthermore, investing in our products means that you can gain extra profitability with annual distribution of results and also help with the development of your region. Fixed Income Our Fixed Income products are an excellent investment choice for individuals and companies, as they combine excellent profitability and security. They allow flexibility in the grace period for resources and knowledge of the remuneration conditions of your Investment at the time of application.Agribusiness Credit Letter – LCA LCA is an investment option for those looking to diversify their assets with low-risk investments. The product is exempt from Income Tax and IOF for individuals, which makes its equivalent rate very attractive. Savings Savings is our best-known and most traditional investment. It is a simple and low-risk investment, as well as being the most suitable for those just starting out. This is because you don't need a lot of money to start and you can redeem your resource at any time. It's great for building a reserve for unexpected expenses or achieving a goal, with all the confidence and care that your money deserves. Investment Funds Whatever your investor profile: conservative, moderate or bold, Investment Funds are a excellent alternative. These products bring together the resources of a group of investors, bringing profitability through the trading of securities in the financial market. And, with our specialized service, we help you find the ideal solution for your goals. 64 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Find out more about investments by reading the QR Code or click here. RPPS – Own Social Security Regimes Discover our portfolio of Investment Funds: • Shares Share Investment Funds are funds that direct at least 67% of their portfolio to shares on the stock exchange or shares in other share funds. It is ideal for those looking for high gains and have a bold risk profile. • Foreign Exchange Foreign exchange investment funds direct at least 80% of their portfolio to assets or derivatives linked to foreign currency. They are ideal for those who want to maintain purchasing power in foreign currency or diversify their investments, seeking enhance gains. • Multimarket These are funds, as the name suggests, that can invest in different markets (stocks, fixed income, foreign exchange, among others), being ideal for those seeking superior gains through diversification of the investment portfolio. • Fixed Income These are funds that make up your portfolio with at least 80% of assets from this class, which can be pre-fixed or post-fixed. It is ideal for those who have a conservative profile or want to direct part of their resources to products more conservative. Public servants and their beneficiaries can count on our security and tradition to invest, counting on the solidity of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, which manages investment funds for RPPS distributed in our cooperatives and adheres to BACEN resolution nº 4,963. With this, the member can count on our broad portfolio for diversification of RPPS resources, with low administration fees and expertise of Assets (Managers of Investments). Private Pension An important way to supplement your income during retirement, in addition to being an investment with tax benefits, it also serves the purpose of designating resources for family succession. Pension plans at Sicredi are managed by Icatu Seguros, a leading independent insurer in the private pension and life insurance sectors. See which plan is best suited to your profile: • PGBL It is an option for those who declare the Income Tax (IR) using the complete form. The great advantage of the PGBL is that contributions to the plan can be deducted in the annual IR adjustment declaration up to a limit of 12% of annual gross income, reducing the tax to be paid or increasing the refund amount as long as you are a taxpayer. official pension. • VGBL It is an option for those who are exempt, declare Income Tax (IR) using the simplified form or have already reached the maximum tax deduction limit of 12% offered by PGBL. As it does not offer the possibility of deducting contributions, the advantage of VGBL is that IR taxation, when withdrawing the money, only applies to the income from contributions. 65 Responsible Solutions66 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The story of Lara and Carla from Marataízes/ES Lara Tavora Brazil decided to follow the path of entrepreneurship in partnership with her mother, Carla Tavora Brazil, thus building a pizzeria in municipality of Marataízes. With the arrival of Sicredi in the municipality, they sought out our Cooperative about two months ago and counted on our partnership to make investments, qualify the business and offer more payment convenience to customers. “First we used credit and took out financing to be able to buy machinery, the dough maker, to invest in other equipment. Also credit card machines. We didn't work with this way of payment, I lost some customers during the workday and I was unable to enable any machines and then Sicredi provided two. It really saved us”, says Lara.Prosperity in Espírito Santo Our official arrival in Espírito Santo took place in December 2021 with the opening of three branches, two in Cachoeiro de Itapemirim and one in Marataízes. However, since the beginning of 2021 we have been forming teams of employees, who consequently have already gotten to know our future members, understanding their needs and desires and contributing to realizing dreams and important achievements for new members. You can check the result of this from now on. We present three stories of these new members and how Sicredi is already helping their prosperity. Carla and Lara Tavora Brazil, associates of Marataízes/ES.67 Responsible Solutions This movement represented a true watershed for the company, which evolved from a business family for an enterprise with a high level of professionalization. Therefore, the two are grateful for the support provided by Sicredi so that the business could grow and generate prosperity for the family. “I think it was the best partnership we've had so far. With Sicredi we can grow more easily and thank God the tendency is to grow more. And with that, needs gradually arise and Sicredi is always willing to assist us” explains Lara. A story of Pedrício de Marataízes/ES “Sicredi can help you achieve your dream”. This is the definition that Pedrício Pereira Marvila gives us when talking about our partnership. Having been our associate in Marataízes for five months, he sought our support to acquire the equipment he needed to complete his Crossfit space. In addition to the benefits for himself, having now structured a business, Pedrício explains the impact of this partnership on the community, which now has a space to practice this activity without having to travel to more distant places. Pedrício talks about the incentive that the Cooperative provides. “Sicredi can provide something that we didn’t have here in the municipality, which is to encourage farmers, members, entrepreneurs to seek financing to have more investments.” Pedrício Pereira Marvila, associate of Marataízes/ES. Lara and Carla used various products and services available to support their companies. Discover all the options by reading the QR Code or click here. Pedrício used the Business Credit line. Discover all the credit options for your company by reading the QR Code or click here.68 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The story of Adailton de Cachoeiro de Itapemirim/ES Adailton Brito Mendonça has been a barber for over 20 years. About five months ago, he had his first contact with Sicredi on the recommendation of a friend. During work to expand its barbershop, he counted on our partnership to obtain working capital and thus complete the project, qualifying his space and service to his customers. “Sicredi came to bring this missing complement. Sicredi really opened its doors and embraced this expansion project. I am very satisfied”, he tells us, gratefully. Adailton Brito Mendonça, associate of Cachoeiro de Itapemirim/ES. Adailton used Working Capital, a solution that guarantees financial resources for cover your business's cash flow debts. With it, it is possible to finance the company's operational cycle and cover expenses such as purchasing raw materials and goods, as well as paying taxes, charges, suppliers and payroll. Find out more by reading the QR Code or click here.69 Responsible Solutions Offering financial solutions with an eye on sustainability is one of our main means of positively impacting society and the environment. For Therefore, we seek to broaden the perspective on opportunities in developing more sustainable financial solutions. We have several lines of credit aligned with the so-called green economy, which results in improved well-being for humanity and other living beings, and social equality, while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. Its main pillars are low carbon emissions, efficient use of resources and social inclusion. Lines classified as Low Carbon Emission Agriculture Direct Planting Cost Lines These lines finance direct planting systems in straw, which avoid plowing and harrowing operations, reducing soil disturbance and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, the straw that remains on the soil promotes an increase in microbiological life, further reducing emissions.Program to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions in Agriculture (ABC Program) They encourage investment in agricultural projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation on rural properties. The program has a series of financing lines that include the implementation of organic production systems and crop-livestock, crop-forest, livestock-forest or crop-livestock-forest integration systems. The Program also finances the adaptation or regularization of rural properties to environmental legislation and implementation and improvement of sustainable forest management plans. The ABC Waste Treatment line supports the implementation, maintenance and improvement of waste and waste treatment systems from animal production, for energy generation, composting and the use of biological nitrogen fixation. Lines classified as Good Agricultural Practices Technological Innovation Incentive Program in Agricultural Production (Inovagro) Finances the incorporation of technological innovations on rural properties, including the implementation of systems for generating and distributing alternative energy for own consumption, such as wind, solar and biomass energy. Below we have a story to exemplify this line: Green Economy70 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The story of the Malonek family of Senador Salgado Filho/RS Lilian and Marcio Malonek lead a family of producers who have been dedicated to creating cows for milk production. Being members of Sicredi for almost the entire time they have been carrying out this activity and having migrated to another institution a few years ago, the couple resumed their partnership with our Cooperative in 2020. In this way, they counted on our partnership to pursue a big dream in 2021 : qualify your production to enable your children to remain on the property and have a comfortable life. “Our children are starting to help us and we hope they can enjoy the work and follow what we started with, which is dairy production”, explains Marcio. From that moment on, we carried out countless visits to your property, we understood your reality and always guided your decisions, enabling several achievements, such as the construction of the cow confinement system in a compost barn, increase in number of animals, qualification of the milking parlor and the purchase of equipment. Malonek family from Senador Salgado Filho/RS. “It was with Sicredi that we got financial assistance to carry out this project of ours, which is one of the largest here on the property” says Lilian, satisfied. “We really liked Sicredi’s service, the simplicity with which they always serve us at the branch and also when they come to visit us.” The Malonek family used the INOVAGRO Credit (Incentive Program for Technological Innovation in Agricultural Production), a credit program that supports technological innovation on rural properties, allocating financial resources for this investment. The focus is to increase the productivity of your agribusiness, developing the adoption of good sustainable agricultural management practices. Furthermore, it also encourages the competitive insertion of rural producers in different consumer markets. Find out more by reading the QR Code or click here. 71 Responsible Solutions Agriculture Modernization and Natural Resources Conservation Program (Moderagro) Promotes actions related to defense animal husbandry and soil recovery through the acquisition, transport, application and incorporation of agricultural correctives, in addition to financing the investments necessary for the supply of water, food and waste treatment related to animal husbandry activities and the works resulting from the execution of conservation projects. sanitary and environmental adequacy. Pronaf Mais Alimentos Credit line with social benefit that makes financing possible for family farmers and rural producers. He must be used for investments directly related to the implementation, expansion or modernization of the structure of production, storage, transport and agricultural or non-agricultural services activities, in the rural establishment or in nearby rural community areas. We brought here the story of an associate who used this line in 2021: Francelina used the Pronaf Investimento credit (National Program for Strengthening Family Farming). know more about credit for agribusiness by reading the QR Code or click here. Francelina Fernandes, associate from Garruchos/RS. Francelina Fernandes, known as Dona França, our associate from Garruchos, decided that it was time to generate her income on her own and to do so, she used all her knowledge and experience to start producing cakes and sweets. However, with strawberries proving to be an essential ingredient, she decided to also start producing the fruit herself. “The staff at Sicredi came here and explained to me how the financing operation worked. Thanks to Sicredi and the support of Emater de Garruchos, we continued the project.” Thus, she managed to build a greenhouse to carry out this cultivation. Currently, Francelina is already producing and marketing strawberries, selling them not only in her sweets, but also in the natural form of the fruit. When talking about the service she received, she doesn't hesitate for a second: “There's no explanation. Jessica and Marília do Sicredi gave me all the support in the world. If it weren't for them and Sicredi, I don't think I would have this here.” The Story of Francelina de Garruchos/RS72 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Pronaf Costing Our microcredit lines finance formal and informal microentrepreneurs and promote inclusion in the financial market for low-income microentrepreneurs. These lines include Pronaf Costeio, aimed at family farmers. Energy Financing Solar One of the highlights among our products aligned with the green economy is Financing for Solar Energy, through which members can obtain credit to purchase equipment and technology to capture solar energy and generate clean electrical energy in their homes. According to a survey by the National Electric Energy Agency (Aneel), carried out in 2021, 28.7 thousand new photovoltaic generation units were installed in Rio Grande do Sul in 2020. Of this total, 11.2 thousand were acquired with credit lines offered by Sicredi – which is equivalent to around 40% of the new installations for generating this type of energy in the State. Sicredi's credit portfolio for financing projects for the use of solar energy in Brazil totaled R$4.5 billion at the end of 2021, an increase of 93% compared to the same period in 2020. Of the balance reached, R$2, 4 billion were allocated to Legal Entity (PJ) members, R$ 1.1 billion to Individuals (PF) and R$940 million for rural associates (family farming, medium and large producers). In the last 12 months alone, the volume of credit granted by the institution for this purpose in the country exceeded the R$2.5 billion mark. Sustainable Consortium Aimed at the acquisition and construction of container houses and the acquisition of eco-efficient products, such as water and sewage treatment and solar and wind energy generation. Property with installation of signs photovoltaic energy, financed by the Cooperative.73 Responsible Solutions Our digital channels seek to offer greater autonomy, agility and convenience to members, without losing sight of the principles of cooperativism. During the Covid-19 pandemic, these technologies were essential to maintain service and the progress of members' financial lives, especially in the most severe moments of the crisis, when isolation guidelines were more restricted. In the digital account Woop members have the opportunity to live the experience of an online credit union, following the initiatives, meeting the leaders, participating in events and, of course, carrying out their financial transactions. In addition, we included contact via telephone call in the Relationship and Business Center with associates, going beyond service via WhatsApp messages. Both contact via WhatsApp or telephone are new means of communication between the Cooperative and its associates, even making it possible to carry out financial transactions in a more practical way and from wherever you are, without the need to travel to a branch. The member can also receive information and news from the Cooperative. With the offer of digital channels, in which members can carry out their financial transactions, we can focus our employees less and less on carrying out procedural and transactional issues, and more on strengthening relationships with customers. associates. We call the combination of these two experiences, the physical and the digital, physical. Through it, we will give more autonomy to our members, who will be able to choose which channel they want to be served through, having the same experience whether in the digital or physical environment.Digital ChannelsRelationship with members Want to know more about Woop Sicredi? Read the QR Code or click here. If you want to receive information and news from Sicredi União RS/ES, just save our number (51 3358-4770) and call us. Read the QR Code or click here to register. Associates are the owners of our business and, as we saw in the stories presented, our relationships are close, whether through physical or digital means. We seek to know your objectives, understand your needs and offer the appropriate products for your current moment in life. To measure our evolution and develop new improvements in our relationship with our associates, we carry out a series of performance measurements. your satisfaction. One of them is through the Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey. In Relational NPS, we measure the relationship experience that the associate has with our brand. In 2021, the satisfaction index was 76.15%, a result 4.91 percentage points higher than the previous year.74 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES They will be able, for example, to start the process of contracting a product at agency and complete it at home, via app, after consulting the family, improving their experience with us. Thus, we use the modernization of our processes and systems to maintain our roots and the human and close way of relating. Still regarding our relationship, the Individual Account Opening Platform evolved in 2021 and thus we were able to provide it to all new members throughout the Cooperative's area of ​​activity, speeding up the association process. We were a pilot for the systemic implementation of recycling ATMs, that is, that receive a cash deposit without an envelope and with the amount credited instantly. Still in 2021, we approved the pilot and started with this system in four agencies. In May 2021, we started depositing checks via WhatsApp and Internet Banking and by the end of the year we had 936 deposits through the channels, 354 of which were on Internet Banking and 582 on WhatsApp. We consider that our physical space remains relevant to welcome our members, and is aligned with our brand guidelines. A experience lies in the coexistence of people, who may have spaces in the agency dedicated to holding meetings, financial education actions, lectures and other initiatives that provide the strengthening of our associates' businesses and projects. In 2021, we placed our flag in the State of Espírito Santo, with the opening of three branches in December, one in Marataízes and two in Cachoeiro de Itapemirim, in addition to a business office, which had already been installed in September at the Commercial, Industrial and Services Association of Cachoeiro de Itapemirim (ACISCI), in Cachoeiro de Itapemirim, and the provision of a mobile agency for circulation in specific actions in both municipalities, generating greater proximity to the communities. In Rio Grande do Sul, we gave the community new spaces for the agency in Santo Cristo/RS and for the agency in Entre-Ijuís/RS and four new business offices: one in Santo Ângelo city hall, one in Santa Rosa city hall, one at the Association of Retired Workers and Pensioners of São Borja - ATAPESB, one in the Sulina neighborhood in Santa Rosa/RS, in the innovative concept of sustainability, as it is installed in a container. Furthermore, we maintain service through a mobile branch, which allows us to be even closer to the communities, without the need for members to travel to the fixed branch. If you want to know more about depositing checks, visit our website, read the QR Code or click here. Service Network Agencies: 49 10am to 4pm Business offices: 6 10am to 4pm Accredited agents: 91 Business hours. Relationship and Business Center via WhatsApp and telephone. 8:30 am to 4:45 pm 24 hours, with support from virtual assistant Theo.75 Responsible Solutions Promoting financial education Financial education is one of the main initiatives we develop to increase our positive impact on the lives of members and their communities, helping people manage their money and encouraging entrepreneurship in the regions where we operate. We thus contribute to the formation of a virtuous cycle, in which conscious associates make considered and independent choices, prosper in their personal and business objectives and seek our solutions to meet their financial needs. We believe that, through Financial Education, we can transform our relationship with money and achieve greater independence and freedom in our lives. Therefore, together with all cooperatives, centers and the Sicredi Foundation, we have our national financial education program: Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis. To create it, we used the COOPS method, which is the financial transformation method of the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis, designed to help people with the step-by-step guide to building sustainable financial habits. With the actions of Program, we will share practices that can bring a more sustainable life to many people. The actions take place in the day-to-day work of the Cooperative and our employees are always willing and able to help members in the sustainability of their financial lives. Financial Education with teenagers in Rio Grande do Sul. Action with municipal employees in Santa Rosa/RS. Financial consultancy for company employees in Santa Rosa/RS. Want to know more about the Cooperation program in Ponta do Lápis? Read the QR Code or click here.76 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES ENEF Week A highlight of our systemic performance in financial education is the participation in the National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week), an annual initiative organized by the Central Bank of Brazil with the aim of promoting the National Financial Education Strategy. Financial education actions are aligned with Bacen's financial citizenship initiatives. In 2021, our Cooperative held 223 meetings with schools, companies and groups of members, impacting 6,335 people, including children, teenagers, adults and the elderly. Who is our financial education program for? Our Program is for everyone. We want to help transform the financial lives of people in the communities in which we operate by providing more information, knowledge and good practices to improve our relationship with money. Therefore, initially we will have actions aimed at individuals, micro-entrepreneurs, teenagers and children so that in the future we can do even more, always based on behavioral economics. Our materials and actions consider the differences between audiences and, therefore, we use languages, content and formats adapted to each profile. The Program is alive and constantly evolving, always seeking to make a difference in people's lives. Additionally, in 2021, we included a series of sound bulletins about financial education on radio stations in the Cooperative's region of operation and videos, recorded by our employees and published on Sicredi União RS/ES' social networks.77 Responsible Solutions Sustainable operation Sustainable operation aims to plan and monitor sustainability strategies in structures, proposing innovations and process improvements to reduce environmental impact. Here we highlight in 2021, the result of the neutralization of more than 21 tons of greenhouse gases Greenhouse Effect (GHG) emissions issued in 2020. This is Sicredi's second initiative at national level focusing on neutralizing Greenhouse Gases and aims to improve the sustainable practices of Cooperatives. Furthermore, at the Cooperative, we have the system for generating electrical energy through solar energy, installed at the Administrative Headquarters of Sicredi União RS/ES, and in three other branches (Cerro Largo, Garruchos and Rolador/RS). Annually, the Cooperative allocates various materials without conditions of use for recycling. In 2021, there was around 8m³ of waste, including electronics, tarpaulins and batteries. Furthermore, 118 fluorescent lamps were discarded correctly. Due to the outsourcing of document storage, discarded paper is recycled by the outsourced company and what we still have from paper production at the Cooperative we continue to donate to Ecos do Verde, in Santo Ângelo. In line with digital transformation movements, the Cooperative has been advancing in the use of digital documents to replace physical ones. This improvement, among many benefits, provides greater flexibility for members when signing documents, as signatures can be carried out wherever they are, without the need to travel to the branch. Furthermore, we contribute to the environment by reducing the use of paper and, consequently, the entire logistics chain of these physical documents such as printing, archiving, conferences, monitoring, physical space for storage and disposal. Promote eco-efficient management Solar energy capture system for generating electricity in the Cooperative Headquarters building. 39,359 Digitized Processes 422,745 pages We avoided printing 42 trees We preserved78 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The word risk, in its origin, refers to the possibility of something positive or negative happening after we try to achieve our goals. goals. Thus, taking risks is a very common action in all the daily activities of people and organizations. Therefore, it is essential that we reflect on the impact of our attitudes on the business, the brand and the communities through integrated risk management. This activity is our ally in this scenario of digital transformation, processes, legislation and new work formats. And all Cooperative employees are responsible for identifying, controlling and mitigate risks, to manage and reduce bad episodes, as well as take advantage of good opportunities. In this sense, Sicredi has a centralized integrated risk management structure, which serves all institutions linked to the System, including Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, central offices and cooperatives. Based on the lines of defense model, teams act to identify, control and mitigate factors that may compromise the sustainability of the project. business in the short, medium and long term, contributing to the maintenance of our relationship of solidity and trust. We have policies and standards in compliance with legal requirements, market practices and the institution's practices, with the aim of maintaining the consistency of the guidelines, rules and procedures that underlie the controls used in the risk management process. We have a Risk Appetite Statement, or RAS, a document which aligns our appetite with different types of risks, defining alerts and limits and facilitating the dissemination of the risk management culture in the Cooperative. On a monthly basis, the Board of Directors monitors the indicators in the Risk Appetite Declaration. There is also the dissemination of information and interactions between the areas of the Cooperative to carry out risk management. Ensuring integrated risk management THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS CONSIDER: Financial risks • Credit; • Market; • Variation in interest rates for banking portfolio instruments (IRRBB); • Liquidity; • Capital management; • Socio-environmental. Non-financial risks • Operational; • Business continuity; • Information security; • Compliance.79 Responsible Solutions Financing activities in sectors exposed to socio-environmental risks (RSA) can generate financial losses and damage our reputation. Therefore, these operations require more detailed risk mitigation mechanisms, as well as the specific assessment of impacts on the business and the communities in which we operate. The systemic management of the topic is the responsibility of the Credit and Socio-Environmental Risk Superintendence, which reports to the executive director of Risks at CAS. In central plants, the responsibility lies with the Supervisory Board and in cooperatives, it is with the Operations Board. Our Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy complies with BACEN Resolution 4,327/14 and is the main driver of RSA management. In conjunction with our Socio-Environmental Risk Management Standard, it establishes guidelines and consolidates rules for operations and associates whose activities are exposed to socio-environmental risks and relevant proportionality in our portfolio, including the management of socio-environmental risks, impacts and opportunities. All of our credit, consortium and exchange contracts have socio-environmental responsibility clause with provision for fines and early settlement of operations in the event of non-compliance with contractual items, which establish socio-environmental commitments. As of 2020, we began carrying out some post-concession monitoring to validate compliance with these socio-environmental commitments established in the contract. Practices included subsequent verification of involvement in slave labor and, through monitoring our georeferenced operations, validation if the area benefiting from financing remains regular. In line with Resolution 4,327/14 of the Central Bank of Brazil, we apply socio-environmental risk checks considering the principles of proportionality and relevance of our portfolio. Our products and services are segmented into certain levels of verification and analysis, according to their classification in relation to exposure to socio-environmental risk, seeking comprehensive coverage. effective in credit, consortium and foreign currency operations. Socio-environmental risks Socio-environmental self-declaration questionnaires Socio-environmental risk prevention practices adopted by Sicredi Prohibited and not recommended activities Environmental screening Geoprocessing Declaration of Risk Appetite and carrying out stress tests Interlocution with environmental and business partners80 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Financial security We form a support network in in which cooperatives act in an integrated manner and support each other. By being part of this network, our members have access to a series of instruments that guarantee security and reliability for their investments. We joined the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop), with the aim of guaranteeing deposits and providing financial assistance to cooperative financial institutions with possible liquidity difficulties. We count on Sicredi Fundos Guarantors, funds made up of contributions from our cooperatives, reimbursements and asset recovery. Their role is to ensure compliance with financial obligations and support cooperative development actions. Furthermore, the security of members' investments is attested by the main credit risk rating agencies in the world, with Fitch's AA (bra) rating and a “Strong” rating for its Asset (investment manager) also granted. by the agency. Sicredi also has a rating from agencies Santard & Poor’s (AAA) and Moody’s (Aa2). 81 Responsible Solutions Working with suppliers and partners with sustainable management We consider it important to share our sustainability commitments with our entire supply chain. In this theme, we seek to encourage suppliers to adopt the best socio-environmental practices and develop regional and local suppliers, guiding them towards a sustainable management. Suppliers must preferably be Sicredi members. In this sense, we also prioritize suppliers from the regions where we are present, as part of the strategy to contribute to the generation of income and growth of the local economy. Furthermore, decisions to purchase and contract goods and services must comply with the socio-environmental criteria defined in our Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy, seeking to generate economic results while protecting the environment and improving people's quality of life. Do you want to be our supplier? Scan the QR Code or click here to send us an email.Engaging sustainable suppliers To ensure that suppliers are aligned with our values, we include anti-corruption, human rights and environmental clauses in our contracts, addressing topics such as child and slave labor . Currently, the measures we can take are linked to the context contractual, allowing termination in case of non-compliance with environmental or social clauses.Data 2021 3.2 thousand Total SuppliersTotal Investment Value 226 million Ilaine Lamb, president of Coopervida/RS associated with Giruá/RS.Local Development07Chapter By being present in cities of all sizes, from small to large, we act as a driver of local development, whether through our financial solutions, job creation or programs developed. Find out how our close and responsible actions positively impact communities. Focus themes: Promote the local economy Promote the development of people Promote financial inclusion Contribute to the development of communities Promote the local economy and promote financial inclusion We are governed by the principles of cooperativism, which guide us in promoting the economic development of the communities where we are present. As we keep aligned with our essence, the money raised in one location is converted into credit granted to other members in the same region, creating a virtuous cycle that stimulates investment in the Cooperative, the inclusion of a greater number of people in the financial system and the strengthening of business of our associates. The distribution of each year's financial results to members and the community is another way to contribute to development. In 2021, in the assembly ordinary general, the members defined the distribution of the result of more than R$82 million, referring to the year 2020. Of this total, more than R$30.7 million were distributed among the members in interest on capital, capital account and financial investments of members according to their financial transactions. In addition to this amount, more than R$5.1 million returned to associates and the community through the Technical and Social Assistance Fund (FATES) and the Social Fund. All the resources circulate in the region, this positively impacts the community, stimulating the generation of income, jobs and sustainable growth. In 2021, Sicredi presented the third study in the series “Benefits of Credit Cooperatives”. The study shows that we are developing a relevant role to provide access to complete financial services to the population of municipalities considered less attractive for maintaining branches for banks to operate, generating financial inclusion. In this, we are a solution to meet the needs of small and micro-entrepreneurs in these regions, contributing to local development, offering complete service, with a wide range of financial products and services, but having a consultative role with each of them due to our proximity. Therefore, we again highlight our day-to-day consultancy work, financial education actions and participation in National Financial Education Week. It's a job essential, given that in the month of July 2021, we had 71.4% of Brazilian consumers with some debt, according to the Consumer Debt and Default Survey (Peic). R$ 1.14 billion Invested in SicrediInvest and RDC by members R$ 2.4 billion in commercial and rural credit in more than 100.3 thousand operations R$ 463 million in BNDES (agribusiness and companies), of which more than 3.4 thousand operationsR$994.7 million in agricultural costs and livestock, commercialization and investments, with more than 12.8 thousand operations 84 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES SEE IN NUMBERS, HOW WE GENERATE DEVELOPMENT IN 2021 AT SICREDI UNIÃO RS/ES: R$ 210.7 million in consigned credit for public servants, with more than 12.1 thousand operationsR$682 thousand in municipal taxes (ISSQN and IPTU) + R$82 million in solar energy credit, with 5.4 thousand operationsR$16.9 million in federal taxes (IRPJ and CSLL ), social charges and labor (INSS, FGTS and PIS) R$ 122 million in consortium quotas, of which 1,242 quotas R$ 99.5 million total cost of employee payroll (remuneration, benefits and charges for employees and management) + R$ 864 thousand invested in the A União Faz a Vida Program R$ 35.8 million in results distributed to members R$ 226 million paid to more than 3,200 suppliers R$ 1.7 million allocated to 238 projects by the Social Fund + R$ 28.2 million invested in the agencies (including installations, furniture, machinery and equipment) + R$ 1.3 million in prizes distributed to consumers in the region through the Together for the Local Economy campaign R$ 6.6 million in payments to outsourced workers (guards, cleaning assistants, concierge and other third parties) R$ 348.5 million Invested in agribusiness letters of credit by members + R$ 539 million in credit released to companies, of which more than 16.5 thousand in operations R$ 77.1 million Invested in investment funds by membersR$76.6 million in vehicle credit, with more than 2,800 operations 85 Local DevelopmentPromoting people's development Our employees are part of the communities where we operate and, at the same time, are responsible for close relationships and human that we establish with these. They are the ones who make an effort on a daily basis to get to know the lives of their members, the dynamics of the local economy and are capable of responding to their needs. financial needs. Throughout the year, more than 200 professionals joined the Cooperative in order to make a difference. For the development of our employees, we rely on a corporate education process that encourages the training of professionals integrated into the cooperative culture and offers a continuous, growing and cumulative learning process. The investment made in training and qualifications, through the Educational and Social Technical Assistance Fund – FATES, directly impacts the development and evolution of professionals who participate in courses, lectures, seminars and training.Employee development 869 employees Develop EngagementHiring · 231 new talents: 186 RS and 45 ES · 3,000 candidates evaluated Age range · Up to 20 years old : 39 · 21 to 30 years old: 269 · 31 to 40 years old: 368 · Over 40 years old: 193 · 88.04% graduates · 20h on average of training · 507 Anbima CPA 10/20/CEA certificates · 130 receive incentive to education · 50 talents in leadership training Tempo Sicredi · Up to 2 years: 271 · 3 to 5 years: 171 · 6 to 10 years: 163 · 11 to 20 years: 244 · 21 to 30 years: 20 · 99% indicate the Sicredi · 96% are proud to be partEmployees Sicredi União RS/ES 86 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ESEducation is a principle of cooperativism and a very strong banner at Sicredi União RS/ES, where the priority is the development of new skills, forms and methods of work, always with an eye on our careers, so that we can have teams that are increasingly contributing, diverse and inclusive. The Sicredi Aprendi platform is one of the channels for promoting education in the System. It is an intuitive, interactive and 100% online tool that intensifies employee learning, in addition to encouraging each person to take a leading role in this process. Includes regulatory courses, preparation for certifications, training tracks, business-oriented solutions and learning and a wide range of topics, comprising a catalog of more than 1,200 courses. In addition to the entire learning ecosystem, provided at national level, here at the Cooperative we have local Training Trails, which we call Mapa 0307, ​​with more than 240 hours of content, which meet the different moments of the employee, from integration, to the phases more advanced in their career. In 2021, we carried out a review of the education aid policy for employees, expanding benefits and contributing financially to the implementation of undergraduate, postgraduate, MBA, technologist courses, as well as courses aimed at self-knowledge, seminars and conferences. Today, 88.04% of the cooperative's employees have completed their undergraduate degree and more than half of them have at least a postgraduate degree. We understand that in order to leverage the strategy of having a business model that places the associate as the central figure, at Sicredi the employee is also at the center of our strategy, as we are a company made by people for people. In 2021 we took several steps to vitalize our cooperative culture and strengthen our purpose. We began this journey with the Cooperative's leaders, through the peCMais program (integrated and systemic Body, Mind and Soul essential thinking), which awakened in the leaders the search for a fuller and more balanced performance. In the second semester, we offered the Wealth Management Academy to develop awareness and skills for a virtuous management model, being able to, through work, transform the world into a better place, building oneself and sharing it with other team members. Meetings were also held with other cooperatives, to exchange learning, with the aim of highlighting the essence of cooperativism, with the support of Metanoia consultancy and expected to last another two years. In addition to the internal movement, we carry out a live to the external public about How to undertake and generate prosperity for society, with Thomas Eckschmidt, bringing to more people something that Sicredi believes in: the premise that, far beyond profit, a New Economy company is in tune with the interests of society and aligns with the evolutionary changes that human beings have been facing. Education Vitalization of Culture 87 Local Development Sicredi União RS/ES' annual employee convention took place in September physically (in person and online) and reinforced the systemic purpose: Building a more prosperous society together. We understand that the purpose is collective and its achievement depends greatly on the engagement of each one of us.Convention Do you want to work with us? Find out more here, reading the QR Code or click here. 88 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ESIt is a structured training program for future leaders that provides theoretical-practical experience in leadership topics. Already other editions took place and we currently have two classes in progress. There are more than 40 participants, in partnership with Confidare Consultoria.Academia de Líderes 89 Local Development 90 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES In the last two years, 173 employees celebrated significant anniversaries of their time at the company (5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 years). In these moments, we dedicate ourselves to congratulating and thanking you for all the time, care and attention dedicated to this cooperative. Increasingly, we have noticed that people want to make a career at Sicredi and are proud to stay with the company for a long time, as they identify with the values ​​and the cooperative cause. Certifications The CPA 10 and CPA 20 certifications, offered by the financial market, are essential for employees who work in the business area and for those who wish to develop a career and qualify. Today we have more than 500 certified employees. Training of Advisors Through self-knowledge, combined with the foundations of conscious capitalism, we are training leaders for more conscious organizations that are transforming the world for the better. With this premise, we carried out the Training of the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, taught by Thomas Eckschmidt, co-author of the book Conscious Capitalism. Company anniversaries Expansion to Espírito Santo The beginning of the expansion to Espírito Santo was marked faced great challenges: getting to know the area of ​​activity, the culture of Espírito Santo and understanding what people expected from Sicredi in that region. To strengthen and guarantee the existing culture of purpose in Rio Grande do Sul, 11 employees were transferred to start the work. In addition to this, we began publicizing opportunities and selection processes. We received approximately 3 thousand CVs and around 500 candidates were evaluated. Currently, we already have more than 50 employees, who work at the Cachoeiro de Itapemirim Centro, Jones dos Santos Neves, Marataízes agencies and the business office at ACISCI. Our search for professionals was based on finding people with values ​​that converge with Sicredi's values ​​and diverse skills. We work on an intense process of training professionals over several months, from integration into the cooperative culture, training trails, courses on the Sicredi Aprendi platform, practical experimentation and visits by some employees to Rio Grande do Sul, to see up close how the purpose is lived on a daily basis. All this investment aimed to enable our team to understand and serve our future members. Training of counselors. Employees from Espírito Santo and leaders of the Cooperative.91 Local Development Due to the cooperative nature of our business, we generate a direct positive impact on the communities where we operate. With the objective To further expand our capacity to generate value for the local population, we developed a series of private social investment actions, sponsorships and support, both of systemic and local origin. These initiatives take local needs into account and are aligned with the principles and values ​​of cooperativism. Contribute to the development of communities Find out more about the Commitment Network. Just read the QR Code or click here. The União Faz a Vida Program began in 1995 in Santo Cristo, in the region where Sicredi União RS/ES operates, as a pilot project and in 2021 it closed the year in more than 45 municipalities spread across 11 states in Brazil. It aims to form cooperative citizens in the communities where we operate, encouraging children and adolescents to be protagonists, who have critical thinking, the ability to make decisions and who build projects collectively, thus developing the principles of cooperation and citizenship. He is based on its own teaching methodology, which values ​​knowledge obtained outside and inside school and can be applied in Early Childhood Education, Elementary Education and High School. In it, students are protagonists of the learning process and develop projects that help to work on the globalized knowledge. We have a commitment network made up of different audiences who work in favor of the Program. At the center of this network is the target audience: educators, children and teenagers.The Story of Lucas from Porto Xavier/RS In the area of ​​activity of Sicredi União RS/ES, in 2021, the Program was developed in 27 municipalities, 82 schools, reaching 10,697 students and 1,016 teachers, which provided many stories of learning and entrepreneurship. Among them is Lucas Wachholz, a student at Escola Machado de Assis, in the municipality of Porto Xavier. In the development of the project “Bees don’t do harm, bees make honey”, developed by Lucas' class, the students learned about bees, honey production and received guidance on creating their own baits and thus capturing and breeding Jataí bees, a honey-producing species that does not have a sting and is therefore harmless and can be created by anyone. “I thought it was really cool and I saw that there is something in this that everyone can acquire and everyone can try”, explains Lucas about the motivation to continue developing the creation. the experience of the project evolved and, with the help of his family, Lucas started selling his own products such as essence, bait for bees and boxes to create hives, thus working to generate income for the family, disseminate the creation and preservation of bees and encourage honey production. “The project is for people to delve deeper, learn more and earn another source of income. I started to undertake it already. I sell bait, essence and I’m starting to sell honey.” says Lucas, excited. For Lucas's father, Sandro, who followed the activity from the beginning, the Program stands out for also involving the students' families to cooperate in its success. “It is a very important Program, Sicredi is to be congratulated for developing it. The program doesn't just involve the student itself, because Lucas takes the activity home. We parents are learning too and it is very important.” Lucas Wachholz with his parents. 92 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Lucas's mother, Ângela, highlights how excited and dedicated he is to making the project work. “I see him very committed and I'm very happy with that. As a mother, I feel very proud of the commitment he is showing and his dedication to this project.” Bees are naturally cooperative insects, as they have a very well developed social organization to generate mutual benefit for everyone in the colony. Furthermore, their presence in nature is essential for the pollination of various plant species. Thus, Lucas's project, developed from the A União Faz a Vida Program, not only extends his learning to his entire family, but also contributes to the maintenance and preservation of bees. The director of the School, Vanderlei Lenher, explains that Sicredi's participation was fundamental not only for the execution of the project within the A União Faz a Vida Program but also for the provision of resources for its execution, through of the Social Fund. “The main objective of the school was to ensure greater integration between families, the student and the school. To this end, we forwarded the project to the Cooperative's Social Fund, which we were included in and thus, we were able to buy boxes for stingless bees that were distributed to the students”, explained the director. Sicredi program generates social impact four times greater than the amount invested In 2021, Fundação Sicredi in partnership with the Institute for the Development of Social Investment (IDIS) presented the results of the study on the social impact of the A União Faz a Vida Program. The work sought, through scientific methodology, to identify the Social Return on Investment (SROI), revealing that the impacts of the Program remain at the same intensity in the lives of participants for a period of five to seven years, and that they correspond to four times the investment made. That is, for every R$1.00 invested, R$ 4.07 of social impacts are generated. The SROI methodology, applied in the development of the study, allows social impacts to be monetized, that is, values ​​in reais (R$) are attributed to the impacts measured in the research. Therefore, based on the year 2019, the study estimates that the social value generated by the Program is around R$465 million, with 88.5% of this value corresponding to the transformations perceived in the participating students, and 11.5% of the value composed of the changes perceived in teachers. Another important conclusion was that six out of ten students increased their interest in school and its activities. 93 Local Development Find out more about the A União Faz a Vida program. Read the QR Code or click here.School Cooperative with Vice-President of Sicredi União RS/ES, Enio Scheid. 94 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES The School Cooperatives Program aims to expand learning opportunities for children and adolescents, experiencing the values ​​and principles of cooperativism. The Program takes place in partnership with educational institutions that believe in the principles and values ​​of cooperativism as an educational proposal. The activities are aimed at developing skills such as leadership, social entrepreneurship, financial education and social inclusion. Students are guided by a pedagogical proposal and supported by teachers, Sicredi cooperatives and Departments of Education, among other partners. Its methodology was developed with the contribution of educators and students and is based on a gamification approach (based on game thinking), bringing elements such as narrative, challenge, problem solving, self-assessment and progression. At Sicredi União RS/ES, we started the program in 2021, at Colégio Concórdia in Santa Rosa/RS, with the formation of a cooperative, which was called, by the group of 30 students (associates), as COOPERALL, translated into Portuguese: Cooperativa de Todos.95 Local Development Technical assistance: supports technical training activities to develop the economic activity of members, improving the conditions of professional activity and supporting family subsistence. Educational assistance: aims to objective to improve the knowledge of the cooperative's membership, family members and employees with the development of educational activities for the dissemination and promotion of cooperativism. Social assistance: aims to help, improve and protect the lives of members, their families and employees through social and health support, with events, sporting and cultural activities, among other initiatives.1 2 3FATES In 2021, R$8,415,819.36 was allocated to FATES. However, due to the cancellation of most face-to-face activities that were carried out virtually, we invested R$4,700,677.11. As a result, the surplus resources will be allocated to 2022 and there will be a need to request additional amounts allocated to the Fund to complement the investment budget proposed by the Cooperative. Women from Salvador das Missões/RS taking a SENAR course with resources from FATES. With the aim of investing resources in assisting members, their families and, when provided for in the statute, employees, we reserve at least 5% of the financial result in the Fund Technical, Educational and Social Assistance (FATES). The Fund offers assistance on three fronts:96 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Delivery of the Social Fund to the covered entities in Tuparendi/RS. The Social Fund was created with the aim of supporting local social projects, focused on education, culture, sport, health, safety and the environment, contributing to the development of communities in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity and exercising the 7th principle of cooperativism: interest in the community. In 2021, the initiative distributed R$ 1.7 million to 238 projects, with more than 400 projects registered and evaluated by core coordinator members. SOCIAL FUND NUMBERS 2021 Type Quantity Environmental 9 Cultural 38 Educational 108 Sports 8 Health 60 Security 15 Total 238 Delivery of the Social Fund to the covered entities in Bossoroca/RS. Delivery of the Social Fund to the covered entities in Santo Ângelo/RS. Delivery of the Fund Social to the entities covered in São Paulo das Missões/RS. Delivery of the Social Fund to the entities covered in Sete de Setembro/RS. See all the entities covered by reading the QR Code or click here.97 Local Development Ilaine Lamb, president of Coopervida RS associated with Giruá/RS.The history of Coopervida de Giruá/RS One of the projects included in 2021, in the Social Fund, was from Coopervida de Giruá Cooperative, in the environmental area. Coopervida RS is a cooperative of recycling that has been working with sustainable development since 2016. There are 31 members who collect recyclable materials that would go to landfills and pollute the environment. In this way, Coopervida RS contributes to generating income for cooperative families, reducing pollutants and reducing the use of natural resources. Currently, the cooperative operates with two selective collection contracts and nine sorting contracts with municipalities in the Northwest region of Rio Grande do Sul. In 2021, Coopervida received funds to purchase a glass crushing machine for the project to recycle this material in the region. “We don’t just think about profit, but about sustainability. And glass is a problem in several cities and our institution wants to reduce this problem”, explains Ilaine Lamb, current president of Coopervida RS. With the new machine, the cooperative will be able to process larger quantities of glass more easily and thus generate more income for everyone who is part of it. The cooperative has already been included in another edition of the Social Fund with office supplies and personal protective equipment, in addition to receiving support through Sicredi products and services: “We have been in partnership with Sicredi for more than three years. A very good partnership for us” explains Ilaine. Regarding the relationship between cooperatives, Ilaine sees Sicredi as a very important partner for the continuity of her work. “We have at Sicredi not only a financial institution, but they are partner people who at every moment, every moment I need, there are always people available to help us with everything”. Coopervida RS employees sorting recycled material.98 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi União RS/ES Readers, we have reached the end of this retrospective trip to the year 2021. Throughout these pages, you were able to see everything we built together with our employees , associates and community throughout the year. But we want you to get to know us more and be part of this virtuous circle that is cooperativism. Therefore, we invite you to visit us, talk to us, join Sicredi and invite other people who also want to build a more prosperous society to be part of this cooperative financial institution. See some more benefits of being together with us: Read the QR Code or click here and open your account!Participation in results: The cooperative's financial results are shared with you and other members. Solid financial institution: We have been in business for 119 years and have R$197.6 billion in assets, numbers that reinforce our credibility and security. Close service: Our team is available to help you deal with your money in a simple and responsible way. Strength for the local economy: When you invest with us, we support the development of the regions where we are present.99 Final Considerations Get to know Rio Grande do Sul. Read the QR Code or click here. Get to know Espírito Santo. read the QR Code or click here. Find out more about the states in which Sicredi União RS/ES Fazenda da Lagoa, São Luiz Gonzaga/RS operates. Falésias Beach, Marataízes/ES.ww w.sicredi.com.br /coop/uniaorse sSicredi União RS/ES