Sicredi Annual Report 2020UniEstados Annual Report 2020Sicredi UniEstadosSUMMARY PRESENTATION................................................ ......................... 5 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT .................... ..................... 6 OUR COOPERATIVE .......................... ................................ 8 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2020 ............. .......................................... 10 SICREDI IN 2020 .... .................................................... ......... 17 GOVERNANCE .................................................. .................. 20 PARTICIPATION .............................. ..................................... 22 RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS .......... .................................... 27 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT ............ ................................. 32 RESULTS ............... .................................................... .... 42 PLANNING FOR THE NEXT PERIOD ............ 44 SERVICE NETWORK .................................................... 46 3Annual Report 2020PRESENTATION We are Sicredi UniEstados, one of the 108 cooperatives that are part of Sicredi, the first Cooperative Financial Institution in Brazil. We are part of a national system, made up of more than 4.9 million members who jointly decide the direction of the business and form a network that supports its prosperity with responsible financial solutions. In 2020 we were alongside our associates, employees and communities, where our actions reflected our values. Our commitment to everyone went beyond financial life, but to the well-being and health of our people. We were close, even distant, we were next door, even from afar and we supported those who needed it most, even virtually. We extend our hand, even without being able to physically shake it. We learned together to overcome barriers and face new things with great courage. In this report you will be able to understand how we made a difference in the lives of more than 100 thousand associates, in our 45 municipalities, generating development through our 52 agencies in the north of Rio Grande do Sul, the mid-west of Santa Catarina and the south of Minas Gerais. Have a good read. 52020 Annual ReportThe year 2020 will certainly be remembered by everyone, not only for the pandemic, but for the great challenges we faced. Challenges in the health, economic and environmental areas. Never before in history have we needed to reinvent ourselves so much, believe in changes and take care of people the way we did this past year. Sicredi UniEstados was very concerned and took great care of its more than 600 employees, providing conditions for them to work in various ways, thus avoiding contagion from Covid-19. This allowed us to at no point stop serving our members, enabling them to have access to products and services, and together we could deal with the difficult times we went through. A The economy challenged companies, demanded different and bolder measures from governments, created opportunities, encouraged us to learn and use electronic media like never before and, above all, made us change our way of thinking and acting. Everything happened very quickly, and those who adapted managed to end 2020 more prepared for the challenges of 2021. At the beginning of 2019, in this same document that is in your hands, we talked about the year 2020, without imagining what would be in front of us and we were blessed by God in our words, because this year everyone needed to look at their finances in more depth. See part of the text we refer to: MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 7Annual Report 20206Sicredi UniEstados Adelar José Parmeggiani President of Sicredi UniEstados“For 2020, we will continue with our work aimed mainly at meeting the needs of the communities, with a strong relationship and reducing costs for the our associate. The exemption approved by the Board of Directors for relationship baskets for individuals demonstrates the maturity of the cooperative and its grandeur in society. As a result, the distribution of results begins at the beginning of the year and mainly affects small members, who are the majority in the cooperative”. Throughout 2020, we not only did this, but also created special lines of credit, made new products and services available to our associates, and we make strong investments in the social and health areas. These initiatives, in addition to many others taken by our cooperative, have enabled us to grow in a significant and sustainable way. We reached 52 branches in our area of ​​action, we had more than 105 thousand members, growing more than 10% compared to last year. We reached more than R$3 billion in assets, representing a growth of 50%; we reached more than R$2.6 billion in credit, which represented an increase of more than 40% compared to the previous period and we increased our total resources by more than 40%, reaching R$2.8 billion. These numbers place us as the fourth largest cooperative in Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast and among the 25 largest credit cooperatives in the country. We were very close to our communities, where we invested more than R$ 1.1 million in the social area, serving more than 290 projects through our Social Fund, with which we prioritize issues linked to health and food, aiming to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic. We continue to invest in education and training for our associates and the community, mainly through the A União Faz A Vida Program and our Financial Education program; we strengthened the work of the Women's Committee and supported farming families through our Rural Property Management and Succession Program, in partnership with SEBRAE. We invest in the infrastructure of our branches, creating spaces for relationship with and between associates, always providing the best technology, especially in our applications, but without leaving aside the close and human relationship that we have always valued. We understand that physical service (physical/digital) is the most appropriate for our cooperative. We thank our Board of Directors, Supervisory Board, directors, employees, partners and especially the more than 100 thousand associates, who together, despite difficult times 2020, worked to deliver a result above expectations. I'm counting on our team of employees and associates to do better in 2021 than in 2020 and to celebrate great achievements again. Thank you all and a big hug! Adelar José Parmeggiani President of Sicredi UniEstados Our Numbers Sicredi UniEstados Sicrediem System assets in assetsin credit in credit in 2020More than in More thanResults ofMore thanR$3.2 billion R$155 billionR$2.6 billion R$ 97.2 billionR$ 67 million600 30 thousand105 thousand 4.9 million52 45 1.9 thousand 23collaborators collaboratorsagencies cities agencies Brazilian statesassociates of associatesOUR COOPERATIVA9Annual Report 20208Sicredi UniEstados Sicredi UniEstados began on April 14, 1981, when a group of Farmers from Erechim joined forces to establish their credit cooperative. At the time, the membership was made up of few members and there were no branches in the surrounding municipalities. The clearing of papers and documents was carried out by another financial institution and resources at the time were scarce. In 1992 we joined Sicredi. In this way, we became part of a national system, with specialized companies and financial instruments that increased the security of our members and strengthened our local operations. In October 2006, with a strengthened structure and well regarded by the Central Bank of Brazil, We obtained approval for us to become a Credit Cooperative with Free Admission of Members, starting to serve other audiences, in addition to rural areas. In the same year, we were authorized to expand our area of ​​action to the State of Santa Catarina, where we also began to operate in 24 municipalities. In 2018, our area of ​​operation expanded to the state of Minas Gerais. At this moment we are now called Sicredi UniEstados and have 73 municipalities in our area of action. In 2020, our cooperative saw a 12% growth in the number of members, with 4 new branches. Currently, Sicredi UniEstados is made up of more than 105 thousand members and we are present in 45 municipalities in the northern region of Rio Grande do Sul, western Santa Catarina and southern Minas Gerais. Sicredi UniEstados Inconﬁdentes Monte Sião Erval Velho Data – December 2020ESTADO RS • Aratiba • Áurea • Barão de Cotegipe • Barra do Rio Azul • Benjamim Constant do Sul • Campinas do Sul • Centenário • Cruzaltense • Entre Rios do Sul • Erechim Bairro Atlântico • Erechim Centro • Erechim Praça Jayme Lago • Erechim Santo Dal Bosco • Erechim Três Vendas • Erechim Agência Empresarial • Erval Grande • Faxinalzinho • Gaurama • Itatiba do Sul • Marcelino Ramos • Mariano Moro • Maximiliano de Almeida • Paulo Bento • Ponte Preta • São Valentim • Severiano de Almeida • Três Arroios • ViadutosESTADO SC • Alto Bela Vista • Capinzal • Catanduvas • Concordia • Concordia Dr. Maruri • Concórdia Agência Empresarial • Erval Velho • Herval D'Oeste • Ipira • Ipumirim • Irani • Itá • Jaborá • Joaçaba • Luzerna • Ouro • Peritiba • Piratuba • SearaESTADO MG • Alfenas • Andradas • Jacutinga • Machado • Poços de Caldas Administrative Headquarters Av. Sete de Setembro, 689 Erechim/RSRegional OperationsOnline meeting held in October 2020HIGHLIGHTS IN 202011 Annual Report 202010 Sicredi UniEstadosConsortia allow members to purchase goods or services from in a scheduled and safe manner, relying on the plan that best suits your needs. In 2020, Sicredi UniEstados had a record in the search for the product, where more than R$100 million were sold. In the month of November alone, there were around R$27.5 million, where the “More Solidarity Consórcio November” action took place, promoted by Administradora de Consórcios Sicredi. Through this action, part of the values ​​sold in Consortia were reverted into donations to charities. The effort resulted in a donation of R$9,500.00 which was directed to CECRIS, in Erechim. In total, the Program involved 54 meetings (in-person and online), totaling 162 hours of training. After this stage, 90 visits and 360 hours of technological consultancy took place at the properties. In October 2020, two more classes of the Program were launched, one in Rio Grande do Sul and the other in Santa Catarina, benefiting 40 new families with the opportunity to add technical, professional and management knowledge to their rural properties. With the aim of bringing greater technical knowledge to rural producers, Sicredi UniEstados started the Rural Property Management and Succession Program in 2019, in partnership with SEBRAE-RS . In September 2020, 20 families ended their participation in the Program, which allowed members to acquire new skills and knowledge and also involved the family in the management and the search for solutions for the day-to-day running of your properties. Record in the commercialization of Consortiums 20 families participated in the Rural Property Management and Succession Program Family participating in the Program (time carried out before the pandemic) Donation made to CECRISIn 2020 we had three more Own Social Security Regimes (RPPS) that started to invest their resources at Sicredi: Itatiba, Aratiba and Viadutos. Such investments are under the management of Sicredi Asset, Resource Manager at Sicredi, which has hundreds of RPPS shareholders. These partnerships are possible following the decision of the Court of Auditors of the State of Rio Grande do Sul (TCE-RS), which issued a favorable opinion to credit cooperatives, to raise funds from the Public Servants' Social Security Regime Funds. , making the State of RS equal to the other States of the Federation, which already allowed credit cooperatives to capture this type of resource. Today, with these new partnerships, Sicredi UniEstados has six RPPS investing their resources in the cooperative. Three more Municipal Social Security Regimes (RPPS) start to invest their resources in Sicredi UniEstados Signature with RPPS of Aratiba/RSHeadquarters Inauguration Ceremony Administrative and Agencies. Event taking place before the legal pandemic. There are 4,030 square meters of built area on a plot of approximately 2 thousand square meters, totaling a investment exceeding R$17 million. The inauguration ceremony took place even before the start of the pandemic and was attended by hundreds of people in a ceremony marked by emotion, the certainty of realizing a dream and consolidating a collective ideal. Sicredi UniEstados inaugurated in February 2020 the structure of its Administrative Headquarters, located on Avenida Sete de Setembro, in Erechim/RS. The building houses more than 130 employees from the technical and support for the cooperative's 52 agencies, in addition to the president and board of directors. On the ground floor of the building are located the Praça Jayme Lago agency and the Business agency, which exclusively serves individual members. Inauguration of the Administrative Headquarters Hundreds of people attended the ceremony. Event held before the pandemic Administrative Headquarters Sicredi UniEstados13 Annual Report 202012 Sicredi UniEstados Rodrigo José Velicko – Gaurama/RS Romeu Heemann – Seara/SC Ivonir Luis Marca – Benjamin Constant do Sul/RSIn 2020, Sicredi UniEstados had six members included in the Life Insurance draws, totaling R$268,000.00 in prizes awarded. In addition to ensuring your safety and peace of mind for your family, Seguro Vida members Nadir Francescon Spegiorin – Entre Rios do Sul/RS (Photo taken before the pandemic) Eri Forner – Severiano de Almeida/RS Michele Roscioli – Barao de Cotegipe/RS Check out the winners in 2020: Associate Agency Award* Michele Roscioli Barão de Cotegipe R$ 50,000.00 Ivonir Luis Marca Benjamin Constant do Sul R$ 36,000.00 Eri Forner Severiano de Almeida R$ 32,000.00 Rodrigo José Velicko Gaurama R$ 50,000.00 Romeu Heemann Seara R$ 50,000.00 Nadir Franceson Spegiorin Entre Rios do Sul R$ 50,000.00 who have Life Insurance with Sicredi compete weekly for the value of the insured capital, through four monthly draws by the Federal Lottery, limited to R$ 200 thousand. In addition, policyholders have access to a series of differentiated coverage and assistance that provide protection and convenience to make everyday life easier. * The amount drawn will be deducted for taxes and duties, in accordance with legislation in force at the time of the draw. 15 Annual Report 202014 Sicredi UniEstados Taking the banner of cooperativism to more and more communities is part of Sicredi's mission and is one of the cooperative's strategic drivers. Even in a challenging year like the one we went through, we followed our purpose and We delivered four new branches to the communities where we operate, in the cities of Machado/MG, Poços de Caldas/MG, Erval Velho/SC and Concórdia/SC, which received a Business branch, becoming the third service point in the municipality. The opening of its 50th branch was a milestone for the cooperative, as it demonstrates in practice one of the objectives of creating a cooperative, which is to provide people with opportunities to participate in a fairer, more participatory, financial system. democratic and which has in its essence respect for culture, differences, relationships, care for the environment and social well-being. Furthermore, the Maximiliano de Almeida/RS and Itá/SC branches had their structures completely renovated and adjusted to become even more spacious and comfortable to welcome members and the community. It is worth remembering that the Erechim Jayme Lago and Erechim Empresarial agencies were also completely renovated with the inauguration of the new Administrative Headquarters, as they share the same structure.Openings and Reopenings Machado/MGConcórdia/SC – Agência Empresarial Poços de Caldas/MGMaximiliano de Almeida/RS Erval Velho/SCItá/SC Erechim Praça Jayme Lago and Erechim Empresarial, together with Administrative HeadquartersThe past year has made us all reinvent ourselves, but perhaps one of the segments that felt the impact the most was sport. The interruption of competitions, the absence of fans, the difficulties in commuting... all of this has become part of the daily lives of those involved in sporting activities. Sicredi UniEstados continued to support initiatives in the area because we believe in sport as a transformative agent for communities and also because it allows people to connect with the collective spirit it promotes. We sponsor and support several projects in this area and remain sponsors of Atlântico Futsal and Ypiranga Futebol Clube, from Erechim. In Santa Catarina, we are sponsors of Concordiense de Futsal and Concórdia Atlético Clube de Concórdia, in addition to the Associação Desportiva AGN de ​​Capinzal team. Support for the sport Atlântico Futsal Team during a match. Photo - Edson Castr oSICREDI AWARDS IN 202017 Annual Report 2020 Best and Biggest Vehicle: Exame Magazine Award Date: November 2020 Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, an instrument of access for credit cooperatives to the financial market, ranked in the 43rd place among the 50 Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Furthermore, it stood out with 2nd place in the Rural Credit ranking, maintaining the same position as last year in this indicator. In the sector, Banco Cooperativo also ranked 5th in Credit for Medium-sized Companies, rising one position compared to last year's ranking, 6th in Savings Deposits, 8th in Credit Card Issuers, 9th in Credit for Total Legal Entities , in addition to 10th in Personal Credit and in Real Estate Credit. The cooperative financial institution also achieved positions in the indicators of Total Adjusted Assets (12th, two positions above in relation to the guide's ranking last year), Account Holders (14th), Loans and Financing (14th), Agencies (15th) and Revenue Financial Intermediation and Services (18th). 19 Annual Report 202018 Sicredi UniEstadosÉpoca 360 Award Date: October 2020 In the Época Negócios 360° yearbook, Sicredi occupied 95th place in the ranking general. In this guide, prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral, the cooperative financial institution also presented a positive performance in other categories. In the Banks sector ranking, it came in 5th place, standing out within the sector with 1st place in Corporate Governance and 3rd place in Financial Performance. The institution also ranked 7th in People, 9th in Sustainability and 11th in Innovation and Future Vision. For Complementing its presence in the yearbook, Sicredi also ranked 102nd in the category of Best in Practices, 122nd among the Best in Financial Performance and 55th in Opening: Closed Capital. Among the Best in the South Region, Sicredi was in 16th position. Value 1000 Vehicle: Valor Econômico Award Date: October 2020 In the category that evaluates/highlights the 20 Largest Banks, the institution came in 2nd place among the large ones (those with total assets equal to or greater than 0.25% of the combined total assets of the 100 largest institutions) that grew the most in Credit Operations; ranked 7th in the ranking of the Largest in Credit Operations, in Total Deposits, in Net Profit and also among those with the Best Operating Result without Equity Equivalence. It also ranked 8th on the lists of the Largest in Net Equity and Intermediation Revenue; 9th place when considering the big ones with Best Profitability Operational, without Equity Equivalence and also those that grew the most in Total Deposits; 11th in the ranking of the Most Profitable on Equity; and 14th among the 20 with Lowest Operating Costs, also when only the large ones are considered. BNDES Ranking Vehicle: BNDES Award Date: November 2020 This ranking is prepared by BNDES itself. Below is the balance based on the month of November 2020: 1st place in total indirect operations PF 1st place in total Programs Federal Government Agricultural Companies 1st place Pronaf Investimento 1st place Inovagro 1st place Moderagro 1st place Pronamp Investimento Top Asset Vehicle: Revista Investidor Institucional Award Date: April 2020 In 2020, the ranking classified Sicredi in Resources from Open Pensions: a institution recorded the third highest growth in the last 12 months and the fifth best performance in the last six months. It is also worth mentioning that, in the general classification, Sicredi occupied once again ranked 18th among more than 140 resource managers evaluated in Brazil, with more than R$32.8 billion in resources under management. WYCUP – World Council Young Credit Union People Vehicle: Woccu ​​Award Date: July 2020 The highlight in 2020 was the recognition achieved by Sicredi member Vinícius Mattia, aged 26, with the project “Family Farming and Sustainable Food”, which was among the three best initiatives presented in this year's edition. As a prize, Mattia has won a scholarship which includes participation in the 2021 World Credit Union Conference, which will be held in Scotland. On that occasion, Sicredi presented another six cases.Top 100 Open Startups Vehicle: Platform 100 Open Startups Award Date: August 2020 In 2020, we appeared for the first time in this ranking that refers to the 100 most open companies for innovation in Brazil. 100 Open Startups is a platform sponsored by global companies that in set evaluate and classify startups from all over the world. The most attractive startups are selected by large companies to collaborate in the development of high-impact innovations for society and the market. Valor Large Groups Vehicle: Valor Econômico Award Date: December 2020 In 2020, considering the combined financial statements, Sicredi ranked 69th among listed companies. The institution also ranked 13th among the 20 largest in the area of finance. To top it off, Sicredi also occupies 7th place among the 20 largest in Net Profit and also in 15th place in Equity Profitability; 8th place among the 20 that grew the most by revenue - rising 8 positions, and 9th place among the 20 largest in Net Equity. 21 Annual Report 202020 Sicredi UniEstadosGOVERNANCE We are a cooperative financial institution that operates in a system, represented by the same Sicredi brand: the Singular Credit Cooperatives, the Regional Centers, the Sicredi Confederation, the Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, its subsidiaries, SicrediPar and the Sicredi Foundation. Agencies are our main link with members. It's where we pool our savings, make collective decisions and look for the best financial solutions. Doing it together allows us to achieve gains in scale, due to the greater number of operations and services. Our partnership grows the potential of our cooperatives. We are also together in our objectives and values, we have the same brand and the same mission. Furthermore, at Sicredi, associates have an active participation in the management of the business. They meet to elect Core Delegates, who represent their interests at the Cooperative's Ordinary General Assembly. The Center Delegates also elect the members of the Board of Directors, the body responsible for the cooperative's strategy and for choosing the Board of Directors. Meet our Board Members: From left to right: Cristiano Antonio Presotto, Irwing Carlos Schneider, Helio Basei, Lindanir Francisca Canelo, Luis Carlos Caramori (Vice-President), Adelar José Parmeggiani (President), Adelino Reovaldo Loch, Eduardo Francisco Groth, Carlos Alberto Pavan, Jair Sachetti Santin, Idanir Scalabrin. Meet our directors: Executive Director: Elisandro Luis Marmentini Director of Operations: Jaime Célio Testolin. Meet Our Fiscal Advisors: From left to right: Edemar Ebeling, Diana Maria Trentin Prichua, Diego Bertuzzi.Fiscal Council The Fiscal Council is an independent body within the cooperative. Assiduously and thoroughly supervises the administration of the cooperative's assets and operations on behalf of its members. It is made up of three full members and three substitutes, all associates, elected for a three-year term by the General Assembly. Executive Board The Executive Board is responsible for managing the cooperative. This body is appointed by the The cooperative's Board of Directors coordinates the execution of business, operations, services and support and administrative activities. (elect) (elect)(select)Participative Management of the Cooperative MembersNucleus CoordinatorsBoard of Directors of the Cooperative Cooperative Supervisory Board Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the superior management body of the cooperative, formed by members elected by the other members. AND responsible for implementing the proposals approved at the General Assembly. It is made up of the president, vice-president and effective advisors. Members are elected for four-year terms. 23 Annual Report 202022 Sicredi UniEstados PARTICIPATION The assemblies are the supreme body of the cooperative, which, in accordance with the law and the Bylaws, take any and all decisions in the interest of society. In a democratic way, each member has the power to vote. Equally, each vote has the same value, regardless of the amount of capital invested in the cooperative. The assembly is the place to practice Democratic Management: participate, suggest, discuss, monitor. In 2020, the assembly period was directly affected by the arrival of the pandemic. Until the beginning of this period, 20 face-to-face assemblies had been held, with the participation of 9332 people. The Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting was held online, with the presence of 186 of the 187 Center Delegates. The event was broadcast from the Administrative Headquarters and represented a major innovation for the cooperative. ASSEMBLY Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly was transmitted online to the cooperative's Center Delegates Meeting of Center Delegates Virtual meeting of the Crescer ProgramAssembly in Luzerna/SC - Event held before the pandemic Assembly in Concórdia-SC - Event held before the pandemicThe Program Belonging aims to bring more transparency to our business and encourage participation in assemblies and decision-making processes. Through it, we engage members, establish participation rules and guide the participatory management model. Regional Meeting of Center Delegates Sicredi UniEstados held a Regional Meeting with Center Delegates online in September 2020, maintaining all precautions to prevent and combat Covid-19. On this occasion, the cooperative's 2021 Strategic Planning guidelines were presented. We consider it essential to spread the culture of cooperativism among our members. With the Crescer Program, our education program focusing on cooperatives and credit cooperatives, members and future members have a greater understanding of cooperative societies, their functioning, benefits and differences in relation to other financial institutions. With this training, they also come to understand their role as business owners and the importance of participating in the governance of the cooperative, potentially awakening an interest in taking on a leadership role. In 2020, the Program received an update so that it became possible to carry out it in an online format, adapted to the pandemic scenario. In total, 287 members participated in training meetings throughout the year. Since 2010, when the Program was created, we have had more than 14,000 trained associates.25 Annual Report 202024 Sicredi UniEstados Women's Committee Recognizing the fundamental contribution of women to economic, social and cultural development throughout the country, in addition to reinforcing the cooperative commitment to promoting female empowerment, Sicredi UniEstados carried out, in February 2020, the solemnity of the creation of its Women's Committee. Eight women from municipalities within the cooperative's operating area in the states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina were sworn in for the 2020/2021 administration. They are: Angelita Vargas Grezzana (Erechim), Flavia Vieira Tacca (Erechim), Jucelí Ana Klosinski (Gaurama), Kadija Melisa Paris (Centenário), Luciana Girelli (Benjamin Constant do Sul), Luciane Tibolla Giachine (Concórdia), Rosângela Padilha dos Santos Ramos (Herval D'Oeste) and Vilse Aparecida de Oliveira Heiden (Seara). The group of women, together with 34 other associates, were prepared for the DISSEMINATION OF COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITY Day C to Cooperate As is already traditional, Sicredi UniEstados participates in Day to Cooperate, also known as Day C, the largest movement to encourage the implementation of transformative initiatives in the country. The date, celebrated on the International Day of Cooperatives, which in 2020 was celebrated on the 4th of July, encourages actions of solidarity and social responsibility by the 07 branches of cooperatives operating in Brazil, which transform the reality of the communities where are included through volunteering. The initiative is part of the strategic agenda of the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives). To mark this date, Sicredi UniEstados carried out several volunteer actions to help the communities where it operates, in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Minas Gerais. One of them was the mobilization of teams, where more than 580 employees at the time gave up their Christmas present so that the value could be reverted in donations to families that were being most impacted. Delivery of donations on Day C of Cooperating Food collection point on Day C of Cooperating, in Erechim/RSMany employees also made donations to the initiative and the agency teams also mobilized their communities to donate food to these families. More than a thousand basic food baskets were donated. It is worth highlighting that these donations were purchased in commercial establishments in the municipalities where Sicredi UniEstados was present, reinforcing one of the principles of cooperativism, which is interest in the community, and its commitment to strengthening and supporting local commerce. Furthermore, the cooperative donated 50 infrared thermometers to measure temperatures in the municipalities where it is present. In Rio Grande do Sul, Sicredi UniEstados also joined the Núcleo de Cooperativas do Alto Uruguai, where a series of actions were carried out, which collected more than 7 tons of food, more than 300 units of hygiene and cleaning products and 250 basic food baskets, acquired through cash donations. Within the actions there were also a series of lives, two of which were promoted by Sicredi UniEstados: one on Professional Career and the other on Personal Finance, providing information to the entire community. Committee participating in the Despertar Mulher Project, developed from September to December 2019. The Women's Committee's proposal is bring suggestions that contribute to greater participation of women in the cooperative and greater action in their municipalities. Throughout 2020, a series of virtual meetings took place with the Committee, providing lectures, exchanges of ideas and debates, always with the regular participation of the members. Sicredi UniEstados Women's Committee - Event held before the pandemic Virtual meeting Women's Committee held in SeptemberRESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS27 Annual Report 2020 Pix no Sicredi Since November 2020, Sicredi members from all over Brazil have started using Pix, the Central Bank of Brazil's instant payment system that came to bring more convenience to Brazilians. The solution allows you to pay, receive and transfer amounts at any time of the day, seven days a week. Since its launch until January 2021, the solution already represented 92,715 transactions and more than R$90 million handled at Sicredi UniEstados. The cooperative also made signaling kits available regarding receipts through Pix to Legal Entity members, aiming to support them in publicizing the new payment method. 29 Annual Report 202028 Sicredi UniEstados Passage TAG Since December 2020, Sicredi members have been able to take advantage of yet another benefit provided by the financial institution through its payment solutions. This is the Sicredi Passage Tag, a service for use at automatic gates, such as road tolls. With the product, a sticker with a chip that is glued to the car, the user has the convenience of going through billing gates and having the amount debited directly from their current account, avoiding queues and with greater security. The Sicredi Passage Tag is offered through a partnership with the company Green Pass, owner of the Taggy brand and which has access to toll points in 298 municipalities, mostly located in the South, Southeast and Center regions. west of the country. Working Capital MEI This was a line of credit made available with resources from the cooperative, aiming to support Individual Microentrepreneurs in maintaining their activities. In total, more than R$2.5 million was allocated in 245 operations. Emergency Working Capital Emergency line made available with resources from the cooperative with the aim of assisting legal entity members in the continuity of their businesses. This line was created in addition to the other lines for this audience given the high volume of demand and need from companies. More than R$74 million were released, distributed across 530 operations. Small Rural Producer Line developed with the Cooperative's own resources with the aim of serving rural producers affected by the drought and impacted by the pandemic. 1929 operations were carried out, totaling more than R$49 million. K GIRO This was an emergency line provided by cooperative, with the support of the Federal Government, releasing part of the compulsory savings deposit. In this modality, 648 operations were carried out, totaling more than R$25 million. When taking into account all credit lines, Sicredi UniEstados had an increase in its portfolio of over R$825 million, representing an increase of 45% compared to 2019. Extensions of credit installments Aiming to provide conditions so that members could face the situation generated Due to the pandemic and also the drought we faced in 2020, more than R$19 million in credit installments were extended. These extensions were made according to the needs and requests of members. Automatic Insurance Renewals Since the beginning of the pandemic, the cooperative began to automatically renew current insurance, upon authorization from members, ensuring that they continued to have their assets insured during the period. What's new in Investments Throughout the year, a series of innovations were delivered regarding investments, always aiming to serve members in the best way, guaranteeing the profitability of their resources. The first of these was in relation to the Agribusiness Letter of Credit (LCA), where the initial ticket was reduced to R$30 thousand, enabling more investors to access this option. In addition, new Investment Funds were included – Macro, Cambial, Bolsa Americana and Valor FIA, completing the availability of 20 funds for retail (Individuals and Legal Entities). 8 new externally managed pension funds were also included (ADAM ICATU, ALASKA 70 ICATU, ARX INCOME ICATU, AZ QUEST ICATU, LEBLON ICATU, MAUÁ PREVIDÊNCIA ICATU, VERDE AM LONG BIAS 70 ICATU, VINCI EQUILÍBRIO ICATU) – totaling 13 funds for People Physics.FGTS Anniversary Withdrawal To support its members in the challenging times we are going through, Sicredi made available the line of credit to advance the FGTS Anniversary Withdrawal. Using this modality, it was possible to anticipate the receipt of the amount available for FGTS Birthday Withdrawal and the financial resources could be used for different purposes. As benefits, the credit line is quick and practical and the amount is released into a current account, with fair and attractive rates. The operation was available to individual members who had the Birthday Withdrawal modality of their FGTS enabled and in force and that they had authorized Sicredi as a financial institution to consult the balance of the FGTS Anniversary Withdrawal. In 2020, 222 operations were carried out by Sicredi UniEstados, totaling R$420,427.18. PEAC – FGI Sicredi was among the financial institutions authorized by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) to offer credit guaranteed by the Emergency Credit Access Program (PEAC FGI), launched by the Ministry of Economy. The Program aimed to help small and medium-sized companies (SMEs) overcome the economic crisis resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic. Within this line of credit, Sicredi UniEstados carried out 214 operations, totaling more than R$54 million. Lines of credit supported the cooperative's members during the pandemic In a year in which many people needed to review their finances to face the impacts of the pandemic, Sicredi remained alongside its associates offering a series of credit lines aimed at maintaining the activities of individuals and legal entities.Financial Education Throughout 2020, Financial Education actions had to reinvent themselves due to the pandemic. Even so, lectures, courses, workshops, campaigns, interviews and service and awareness actions were held. More than 10 thousand people were impacted – groups of women, elderly people, company employees, students from schools in the region, academics of various undergraduate courses, among others, reaffirming Sicredi’s mission. Online Financial Education Meeting Delivery of kits with information on financial education during ENEF Week Financial Education Meeting held before the pandemic Cooperate towards a sustainable financial life, assuming Sicredi's intention to be a transformative agent and protagonist through a National Program of Financial Education, with relevant actions developed to meet the needs of different audiences. This is the objective of the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis, which had its official launch at a national level, during the 7th National Financial Education Week, in November 2020. More than 70 actions were carried out, respecting the event restriction scenario imposed by the pandemic caused by Covid-19. Through online lectures, radio and television interviews, as well as awareness raising activities in agencies and support for schools in the municipality, Sicredi UniEstados impacted almost 4 thousand people in face-to-face initiatives and more than 200 thousand people in digital actions. During ENEF week, the Cooperation Day was also launched, an initiative carried out in partnership with various areas of the Cooperative. Through six videos, members and the community have access to a series on self-knowledge, control, budgeting, planning, investments and the importance of cooperation throughout the journey. 30 Sicredi UniEstados National Financial Education Week 33 Annual Report 202032 Sicredi UniEstadosLOCAL DEVELOPMENT To reinforce the importance of small entrepreneurs and cooperativism as engines of the Brazilian economy, Sicredi raised the banner of cooperation in a movement to engage people in favor of the economy of your region, with the “I Cooperate with the Local Economy” campaign. Through communication initiatives and the application of a seal that highlighted companies and consumers engaged in the cause, Sicredi sought to stimulate consumption and local economic development in a time as difficult as the pandemic. The strategy intended to positively impact different audiences, from small traders and rural producers, so that they felt supported by the campaign; Sicredi members, so that they could contribute to the dissemination of messages and Movimento Eu Coopero com a Economia Local to take advantage of opportunities to business that could arise with it; and consumers, so that they became aware of their role in driving the economy of their regions through their consumption behavior. The initiative also invited entities and the media to get involved and strengthen the spread of the movement. A hotsite was also created to serve as a source of information about the initiative and a support tool for local entrepreneurs. The space provided video and e-books with tips on how to work with businesses in digital media, as well as a platform for customizing digital advertising pieces, as well as access to other tools that could help manage the enterprise. Employee Development We had moments in 2020 that made us stop, reflect, give new meaning and work with people on future scenarios during the pandemic. Throughout the year, 7,070 hours of training were promoted for cooperative employees. In addition, 27,255 hours of online training were carried out, via our own EAD Education Platform. This amount represents an average of 57 hours of training per employee. Cooperative University We launched our Cooperative University in 2020, an organic education structure, made up of people willing to learn and teach, through collaboration, exchange of experiences and sharing of knowledge. The purpose is to create and strengthen a culture of continuous learning, which promotes the transformation of knowledge into results and which makes sense for employees and society. ExpoGestão We had 34 managers participating in ExpoGestão, one of the most renowned business meetings in Brazil, which takes place annually in Joinville/SC. In 2020, due to the pandemic, the event was held online. ISE Business School Throughout 2020 we had 6 employees, president and directors participating in training at ISE Business School, one of the most renowned business schools in Brazil. Develop Program Having employees prepared to take on leadership roles is always a challenge for a cooperative in a rapid expansion process like Sicredi UniEstados. Therefore, throughout 2020, 18 employees participated in face-to-face and online meetings of the Develop Program, which included various training sessions aimed at preparing participants for new management challenges with agencies and Administrative Headquarters. Training: Creativity and agile mindsetAiming to provide the best working conditions for our employees, we are always offering a series of courses and training to make everyday life simpler, more modern and agile, always maintaining our principles and strengthening our mission. We consider this a fundamental aspect so that everyone feels integrated into our cooperative culture and can provide the best service to our customers. our associates. 35 Annual Report 202034 Sicredi UniEstadosIntegrate The first days of new employees at Sicredi UniEstados are dedicated to a moment of integration, where they understand what their responsibility is by entering a cooperative system, get to know the company's culture and understand our business. After the start of the pandemic, this training also needed to be restructured and began to take place online, but maintaining its experiential characteristic, with lots of approach, welcoming, and exchange of experiences. Throughout the year, 103 new employees participated in these moments. Play Training! Leading to Transform This training was attended by 116 leaders and representatives and aimed to provide reflections and support on how to lead during the pandemic period, a time when we are facing a series of uncertainties and challenges. SIPAT Week From August 24th to 28th, 2020, Sicredi’s Administrative Headquarters UniEstados held its first Internal Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT). The program of the event, which in this first edition had the theme “Emotions in motion”, included a series of activities for employees: tips on corporate radio, lives on the emergency plan and also on Emotional Crossfit. Headquarters employees were able to participate in stretching sessions, workplace gymnastics and massage, as well as receive guidance from an ergonomist and a nutritionist. The closing was with music and the delivery of a health kit. SIPAT Week at Administrative Headquarters Integrate Career Workshop In order to support managers, helping them to become agents of transformation in their teams, a Career Workshop was held, with 63 participants. The meeting discussed aspects of careers amid the cultural and digital transformations we are experiencing. New Saver With this new solution, savers have greater autonomy and mobility when opening and managing a savings account. With a new mobile device application it is possible to carry out self-service, no longer needing to go to the branch to open a savings account. The tool provides greater comfort and confidentiality by having a unique password identification, created by the member, customization of the card password through the application, among a series of other features. Furthermore, if the saver choose to open your savings account at the branch, there is no need to take copies of documents, as they will receive the bank details immediately and sign documents digitally, without having to take paper home.New Cashier The new cashier came to further improve the employee experience, since it is possible to carry out day-to-day transactions at branches without codes and spreadsheets, on an intuitive platform. It is already 100% implemented in the Cooperative, supporting colleagues in an even simpler, closer and more active service. PF Platform Opening the cooperative's first account on the new PF platform After the new savings account opening tool, we expanded this experience to our new members as well. With the PF Platform, it is now possible to open accounts and purchase products in 15 minutes, all in one system. And all this happens without using paper, with the mobility of a tablet. In addition to making our daily lives easier, this delivery of digital transformation brings more autonomy for members to carry out operations through the application, Sicredi made available as the platform evolves. For us, transformation means bringing a new experience to our associates and employees. We want to make cooperativism exponential and each increasingly relevant, at the same time as we want to make our daily lives simpler, more modern and more agile. We are transforming ourselves to continue doing what we know so well: relating to people in a close way, especially in challenging times like 2020. Digital Transformation Year Students Schools Educators Municipalities 2019 3,224 37 375 9 2020 7,884 56 504 1337 Annual Report 202036 Sicredi UniEstadosThe Union Makes Life Program is the main initiative social responsibility educational program at Sicredi which, in 2020, celebrated 25 years of a trajectory committed to the integral development of children and adolescents. Present in the three states where Sicredi UniEstados operates, this initiative mobilizes 13 municipalities located in the north of Rio Grande do Sul, the mid-west of Santa Catarina and the south of Minas Gerais, recognizing our pioneering spirit on Minas Gerais soil this year. In essence, the Program aims to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship, through the development of projects that stimulate the protagonism and curiosity of children and adolescents. This initiative is monitored by Pedagogical Advisors, Sicredi partner professionals, who help in the development of pedagogical strategies with educators. In this challenging context in which classes had to be suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic, how can being close and making sense to contribute to the education of these agents? The Program needed to (re)invent itself and an engaged team of managers, educators and Cooperative Development Advisors took action in the search for answers. From online moments with the schools, they carried out a diagnosis of each reality and, from there, began work close to the needs of each educator, in order to contribute and support remote planning. The result was an even closer and more strengthened, which impacted approximately 7884 students and 504 educators from 56 municipal and state public schools who, like us, believe in the formation of cooperative citizens. Initial Qualification of the Program - Cruzaltense/RS - Event held before the pandemic Initial Qualification of the Program - Andradas/MG - Event held before the pandemic Representatives of cooperatives 7th State Forum of School Coops, Oct 2019The Program is a social responsibility initiative, supported by seven universal principles of cooperativism, in the Pillars of Education for the 21st Century (Unesco) and in the Pillars of School Cooperatives that aim to provide students with knowledge and improvement of entrepreneurship techniques through learning laboratories. In practice, Cooperatives are formed from student associations formed by the voluntary membership of children or adolescents aged 10 to 17 years old, who, mobilized by a guiding teacher, carry out social, economic or cultural activities for their own benefit, after school hours, with parental authorization and non-profit. We currently have two School Cooperatives in the city of Campinas do Sul/RS, UNIESCO and COOPACAL, which together have 114 members from the 6th year to the 1st year of High School. In addition to these, there are two more cooperatives in the process of formation in the municipality of Itatiba do Sul, which are awaiting the definition of the current scenario for the holding of the Foundation Assembly of COOPERTIBA AND FERCOOP Cooperatives. Together, these School Cooperatives promote student protagonism through leadership development, financial education, social entrepreneurship and social inclusion. WhatsApp Enterprise We have also improved our way of serving. And so that members could continue to receive simple and close service, even without leaving home, we strengthened another communication channel: WhatsApp Enterprise. With an intuitive interface and the use of artificial intelligence, our Corporate WhatsApp solution is already facilitating the daily lives of more than 10 thousand associates, in addition to providing more security, as we have a single number, with standardized service for all of Brazil. To speak to your agency, members simply send a message to the number (51) 3358-4770. Sicredi Conecta Sicredi Conecta is a marketplace tool that contributes to local development, seeking to generate a positive impact in the region. It works as a driver for the expansion of cooperativism, being aligned with the principle of intercooperation. This showcase of products and services expands Sicredi's relationship with its members, and is also a source of information for the Cooperative. It is available for download in the iOS App Store and Google Play. 39 Annual Report 2020 Sicredi UniEstados Social Fund delivers more than R$1.1 million in donations The Social Fund aims to promote social actions for the development of cooperativism and communities in all municipalities within the cooperative's area of ​​action, subject to approval by its Board of Directors. The amount for social allocations is made up of resources from the previous year's results, approved at the Ordinary General Assembly. Thus, Sicredi UniEstados reinvests the resources that are applied in the cooperative, in the form of support for the execution of projects in the most diverse segments, whether social, environmental or economic and that bring collective benefits to the entire community. In 2020, R$1.1 million were spent, distributed across 292 actions, and in the health sector alone, more than R$500,000 were invested in 114 actions, including donations of equipment, devices, PPE for Health Posts, Hospitals and Basic Health Units in our municipalities. 41 Annual Report 202040 Sicredi UniEstadosPrograma Novo Rumo - Brigada Militar de Erechim Through the Social Fund, R$ were also donated 20,000.00 for the creation of geolocation signs on rural properties, benefiting 1,134 producers in Erechim/RS and the region. Georeferencing consists of registering all rural properties located in rural areas in their characteristics, limits and comparisons, obtained by surveying the geographic coordinates of each rural property. The Program is an initiative of the 13th Military Police Battalion in partnership with the Municipal Governments, Rural Unions, Consepros (Pro-Public Security Community Council) and the private sector, focusing on rural security. Through the Program, safety in rural areas will be enhanced and signs will make it easier to locate each property quickly. In case of emergency, the producer will only inform the identification code of his property to the Military Brigade, which will then identify the location and the route to get there. Donation social fund Joaçaba/SC Donation of masks to the Children's Home Donation of a thermometer to the Marcelinense Hospital Association Donation of alcohol gel totems Donation of Hospital Seara/SC Donation of Mesa Brasil Novo Rumo Program Social action in Andradas/MG Donation in Irani/SC Donation of fabrics to make masks A Sicredi UniEstados joined the Atlantic Futsal Campaign, from Erechim/RS, together with other partners, to donate 5 thousand fabric masks to social entities. Some of these masks were made from using fabrics from old cooperative uniforms. The beneficiaries were Obra Santa Marta, Arcan, Reciclando a Vida, Pastoral da Criança do Bairro Progresso and Bairro Três Vendas, Apae, Apada, Adau, Associação Aquarela Pró Autista and Cecris. Donation of 1,500 Christmas baskets to Mesa Brasil Also through the Social Fund, in December, 1,500 Christmas baskets were donated to Sesc, totaling more than 14 tons of food. They were partners in the initiative, offering products at cost price, the companies: Cooperativa Agroindustrial Alfa – CooperAlfa, Gasper Comércio Atacadista de Alimentos, Master Supermercados, Gasparin Cereais, and Transelpe – Tirol distributor. The entities benefiting from the basic food and sweet baskets were the following: Adau, Adeve, Apada, Aquarela, Assami, Apae Erechim, Reciclagem São Luiz, Amigos da Natureza (Arcan), Reciclagem Cidade Limpa, Reciclagem Arfin, Reciclando pela Vida, In Favor of Nature, Corner of Luz, Cantinho Sublime, Cesa, Cecris, Obra Santa Marta, Pastoral da Criança, Pastoral Nossa Senhora da Salete, Recreando a Vida, Grupo Raízes, Lar da Criança, Lar dos Velhinhos, Crade and Guerreiros da Luz.43 Annual Report 202042 Sicredi UniEstados14 April 2021: This is the date that marks the fortieth anniversary of Sicredi UniEstados. To celebrate this festive moment, a series of actions will be carried out throughout the year, involving employees, associates and the community. One One of these initiatives is related to the production of a film that will briefly portray the history of the cooperative. Access the website and find out more. 4 Fiat Toro 0 km 53 Yamaha Factor 125cc motorcycles 53 Savings of R$ 2 thousand Promotion valid during the period from 02/01/2021 to 12/03/2021, for members of Cooperativa Sicredi UniEstados. Consult the complete promotion regulations and contracting conditions at participating service units and on the website www.sicredi.com.br/promocao/40anosjuntos. This product/service may not be available to Woop Sicredi account members. Contact support on your App for more information. Merely illustrative images. SAC - 0800 724 7220 / Hearing or speech impaired - 0800 724 0525. Ombudsman - 0800 646 2519. Compete for more than R$ million in prizes! 1 = lucky number 1 in capital share R$ 100 PROMOTION together SICREDI UNIESTADOSRESULTS 40 years of Sicredi UniEstados Members 81,917 201786,300 201894,375 2019+9.36% +5.35% 105,946 2020+12.26% Sources* 1,152,379,988 20171,445,660,227 20181,728,437,809 2 019+19.56% +25.45% 2,513,419,807 2020+45 .42% Savings 257,237,358 2017377,831,973 2018467,679,475 2019+23.78% +46.88% 597,056,320 2020+27.66% Credit 995,953,126 20171,309,958.9 30 20181.823.324.218 2019+39.19% + 31.53% 2,649,975,021 2020+45.34% Assets 1,345,888,481 20171,608,849,364 20182,075,167,523 2019+28.98% +19.54% 3,219,651,662 2020+ 55.15% Equity Net 192,820,863 2017230,676,140 2018271,458,622 2019+17.68% +19.63% 341,536,793 2020+25.82% Result 46,208,738 201754,555,306 201 859,283,034 2019+8.67% +18.06 % 67,341,588 2020+13.59% * Sources are made up of: demand deposit; term deposit; savings; pension; funds; LCA; BNDES Resources and Net Equity. From February to December 2021, members who invest in share capital at Sicredi UniEstados will participate in the 40 Years Together Promotion, where for every R$100 applied, the participant receives a lucky number to compete for various prizes. The member will have the option to choose between physical goods or cash prizes. In total, more than R$1 million in prizes will be distributed. To find out more, just access sicredi.com.br/promocao/40anosjuntos or look for your agency.Promoção 40 anos Juntos from its foundation to the present moment. A documentary series will also be produced with several episodes, telling stories of members whose lives were transformed by cooperativism and Sicredi. Stay tuned to the cooperative's profiles on Instagram and Facebook and follow it first hand. PLANNING FOR THE NEXT PERIOD Do it Together. This is what moves us. Despite the pandemic, Sicredi UniEstados' 2021 Strategic Planning was built collaboratively and shared, online. Agency managers, managers and directors of the Administrative Headquarters, advisors and delegates of nuclei participated at different times bringing their opinions, their desires and needs regarding the cooperative. After overcoming all these stages, we reached the following challenges for 2021: 44 Sicredi UniEstados * The sources are formed by the sum of demand deposits, time deposits, savings, pension plans, funds, LCA, BNDES Resources and Net Equity. in credit portfolio in sources* of resultsMore than R$3.3 billion R$4.1 billion R$77 million118 thousand59 branches associates SERVICE NETWORK Rio Grande do Sul Aratiba Agency Rua 15 de Novembro, 134 – Aratiba/RS Phone: (54) 3376-1487 Áurea Agency Rua Porto Alegre, 340 – Áurea/RS Phone: (54) 3527-1030 Agency Barão de Cotegipe Rua Angelo Caleffi, 234 – Barão de Cotegipe/RS Phone: (54) 3523-2003 Barra do Rio Azul Agency Rua das Rosas, 255 – Barra do Rio Azul/RS Phone: (54) 3613-1161 Agency Benjamin Constant do Sul Av. Ernesto Gaboardi, s/n – Benjamin Constant do Sul/RS Phone: (54) 3613-2189 Campinas do Sul Agency Av. Maurício Cardoso, 346 – Campinas do Sul/RS Phone: (54) 3366-1115 Centenário Agency Av. Antônio Menegatti, 970 – Centenário/RS Phone: (54) 3613-5276 Cruzaltense Av Agency Pedro Alvarez Cabral, 339 – Cruzaltense/RS Phone: (54) 3613-6377 Entre Rios do Sul Agency Av. Danilo Arlindo Lorenzi, 520 – Entre Rios do Sul/RS Phone: (54) 3544-1205 Erechim Agencies: Atlântico Rua Miguel Moisyn, 167 – Erechim/RS Phone: (54) 3522-0008 Center Rua Virgínia, 144 – Erechim/RS Phone: (54) 2106-2100 Empresarial Av. Sete de Setembro, 695 - Erechim/RS Phone: (54) 2106-2040Agências Sicredi UniEstados Praça Jayme Lago Av. Sete de Setembro, 695 - Erechim/RS Phone: ( 54) 2106-2000 Santo Dal Bosco Rua Israel, 23 – Erechim/RS Phone: (54) 3520-7550 Três Vendas Av. Jose Oscar Salazar, 990 – Erechim/RS Phone: (54) 3520-7150 Agência de Erval Grande Av .Captain João Batista Granado, 480 – Erval Grande – Phone: (54) 3375-1110 Faxinalzinho Agency Av. Lido Armando Ultramari, 801 – Faxinalzinho/RS Phone: (54) 3546-1152 Gaurama Agency Rua José Sponchiado, 79 – Gaurama/RS Phone: (54) 3391-1090 Itatiba do Sul Agency Av. Pedro Antônio Detoni, 225 -Itatiba do Sul/RS Phone: (54) 3528-1277 Marcelino Ramos Agency Rua Rui Barbosa, 17 – Marcelino Ramos/RS Phone: (54) 3372-1520 Mariano Moro Agency Av. 22 de Maio, 23 – Mariano Moro/RS Phone : (54) 3524-1251 Maximiliano de Almeida Agency Av. Jose Bonifá cio, 301 – Maximiliano de Almeida/RS Phone: (54) 3397-1191 Paulo Bento Agency Rua Gaspar Martins, 196 Phone: (54) 3613-0212 Ponte Preta Agency Av. Severino Senhori, 281 – Ponte Preta/RS Phone: (54) 3568-0171 São Valentim Agency Av. Castelo Branco, 627 – São Valentim/RS Phone: (54) 3373-1168 Irani Agency Av Governador Ivo Silveira, 1474 – Irani/SC Phone: (49) 3432-0129 Itá Agency Av. Tancredo de Almeida Neves, 1231 – Itá/SC Phone: (49) 3458-1350 Jaborá Agency Rua Carlos Gomes, 159 – Jaborá/SC Phone: (49) 3526-1584 Joaçaba Agency Rua Sete de Setembro, 77, Térreo – Joaçaba/SC Phone: (49) 3521-4310 Luzerna Agency Rua Vigário Frei João, 66 – Luzerna/SC Phone: (49) 3522-9021 Ouro Agency Rua Felipe Schimidt , 1833 – Ouro/SC Phone: (49) 3555-6163 Peritiba Agency Rua do Comércio, 431 – Peritiba/SC Phone: (49) 3453-1667 Piratuba Agency Av. 18 de Fevereiro, 1085 – Piratuba/SC Phone: (49) 3553-0223 Seara Agency Rua Herculano Zanuzzo, 286 – Seara/SC Phone: (49) 3452-1576 Minas Gerais D e Agency Alfenas Praça Doutor Emilio da Silveira, 398 – Alfenas/MG Phone: (35) 3299-1019 Andradas Agency Rua Coronel Oliveira, 601 – Andradas/MG Phone: (35) 3731-1251 Jacutinga Agency Rua Santo Antonio, 654 – Jacutinga /MG Phone: (35) 3443-4587 Machado Agency Av Artur Bernardes, 373 – Machado/MG Phone: (35) 3295-5328 Poços de Caldas Agency Rua Rio Grande do Sul, 1076 – Poços de Caldas/MG Phone: (35)3715-4756Severiano de Almeida Agency Av. Brasil, 410 – Severiano de Almeida/RS Phone: (54) 3525-1114 Três Arroios Agency Av. Felipe Kops, 60 – Três Arroios/RS Phone: (54) 3526-1103 Viadutos Agency Av. Independência, 230 – Viadutos/RS Phone: (54) 3395-1110 Santa Catarina Alto Bela Vista Agency Rua do Comércio, 1059 – Alto Bela Vista/SC Phone: (49) 3455-9267 Arabutã Agency Av, Lauro Muller, 349 – Arabutã/SC Phone: (49) 3448-0143 Capinzal Rua Agency Quinze de Novembro, 81 – Capinzal/SC Phone: (49) 3555-1205 Agência de Catanduvas Rua Felipe Schmidt, 718 – Catanduvas/SC Phone: (49) 3525-0731 Concordia Agency Rua Domingos Machado de Lima, 654 – Concórdia/SC Phone: (49) 3442-9090 Concordia Dr.Maruri Agency Rua Doutor Maruri, 1505 – Concórdia/SC Phone: (49) 3444-5304 Concórdia Empresarial Agency Rua Marechal Deodoro, 1019 Phone: (49) 3425-9773 Erval Velho Agency Avenida 15 de Novembro, 146 – Erval Velho/SC Phone: (49) 3542-1987 Herval D Agency 'Oeste Rua Santos Dumont, 55 – Herval D'Oeste/SC Phone: (49) 3554-3073 Ipira Agency Rua 15 de Agosto, 76 – Ipira/SC Phone: (49) 3558-0617 / 0458 Ipumirim Agency Av. Rio Branco, 02C - Ipumirim Phone: (49) 3458-155847 46 47Sicredi UniEstados Annual Report 2020sicredi.com.br sicrediuniesdados .com.br facebook/sicrediuniesdados instagram.com/sicrediuniesdados