Digital assembly: access tutorial AssembliesGet to Know Decide to Transform Participating in the digital Assembly is very easy: just follow this tutorial.Get to Know Decide to Transform Before we start, a tip: the process is more Simple if your registration is updated with Sicredi. If you have recently changed your phone number or email address, first update your registration using our customer service channels or contact us. Contact your agency. So, are you ready to be a protagonist in your region? Let's start! Enter the address in your browser: sicredi.c om.br /assembleiasClick on the “Access Assembly” button, in the top right corner or on the links throughout the page. Now is the time to register. If this is your first time accessing the Assemblies platform, click on “I want to register”. Enter your CPF in the top field. And then below, choose Identify yourself with your email or cell phone. Click on the “Register” button. You will receive a token code via email or registered cell phone; use this even number to validate your registration. Click on the “Confirm registration” button. Now that you've validated your token, it's time to choose a password. For greater security, your password must be 8 characters long, containing letters (upper and lower case) and numbers. After typing the password in the upper field, Confirm it in the field below and click “Finish”. If your phone number or email is not updated in the Sicredi registration, you will need to confirm some information before choosing a password. There are three simple questions. After conﬁrmation, register your password and click “Finish”. And ready! Now you are registered and can access your Assembly. Log in to the platform using your CPF number and entering the password you have. created. If you have forgotten your password, click on forgot my password and follow the process to register it again. Now you can see the Assemblies of your active cooperative. Check the date and time of the event and participate! Thank you for being part of the 2022 Assemblies. Your participation results in a better cooperative.