SINGULAR COOPERATIVE ELECTORAL CODE CHAPTER I Initial provisions Art. 1 This Electoral Code establishes the systemic rules of the election process for the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of Sicredi's individual cooperatives. Art. 2 The electoral process will comply with the provisions of legislation, the bylaws of individual cooperatives and the rules of this Code. CHAPTER ll Electoral Procedure in Individual Cooperatives with Delegated Voting Section I of Electoral Commission Art. 3 The electoral process will be conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, ensuring its autonomy and independence. § 1° The Commission will be appointed by the Board of Directors with the minimum advance notice necessary to meet all deadlines essential to the organization of the electoral process. § 2° The Commission will be composed of, at least, O3 (three) associated natural persons, with the option of indicating substitutes, subject to the following requirements: a) Do not make up the list of candidates; b) Not holding a position on the Board of Directors, Fiscal Council or Executive Board of the Cooperative; c) Not be spouses, partners, relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, straight or collateral, of the candidates or those holding current mandates on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; d) Not be employees of the Cooperative. Art. 4 The Commission is responsible Electoral: I — Receive registration protocols for candidate lists; ll — Analyze whether registered candidates meet the legal, statutory and this Code requirements necessary to run for elected positions and other aspects related to the electoral process; Ill — Approval or not of the registered plate(s); IV — Define the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period preceding or during the holding of nL'ic|eo and assembly assemblies general; V — Define whether voting will be by acclamation or secret, including operational aspects related to the election, especially when there is more than one ticket registered, such as: Classification of information U50 internal a) The model of voting ballots or electronic voting, the location of ballot boxes and voting booths, as applicable; b) The procedures for determining the results of the election, including requesting, if necessary, the support of members present to monitor the process and assist in counting votes; c) Processing and forwarding requests received from candidates regularly registered in the process; d) The beginning and end of the voting process; e) General instructions regarding the process and the result of the vote. VI —Inform the registered candidate(s) of their decisions; VII — Reso|ver- omitted cases; VIII — Apply the penalties provided for in this Code or in the Minutes of the Electoral Commission. § 1° The meetings will be recorded in minutes and deliberations are valid by the decision of a simple majority, with the majority of the committee members present. § 2° At the first meeting it holds, the Commission will choose a coordinator and a secretary from among its members. § 3° In the absence of members of the Electoral Commission at the core assembly, the Commission will appoint a representative. § 4° The Electoral Commission may request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative for the work of the Commission. § 5° In the case of a tie in the voting of candidates for the Board of Directors or the Supervisory Board, at the general meeting, the winner will be the one whose group of candidates has the longest average time of association with the Cooperative. § 6 Unless expressly and individually consented, in accordance with the General Personal Data Protection Law, no personal data of members will be provided for the purposes set out in this Code. Art. 5° It is prohibited, by any member of the ticket, by himself or by interposed persons, to carrying out the following acts: I — Using information protected by bank secrecy or by the General Data Protection Law; II — Adopt- practices that may harm or damage the image of Sicredi or any of the entities that make up Sicredi; III — Threaten or coerce members or collaborators of the Cooperative; IV — Propagating - untruths or information without due proof; V — Offer advantages or privileges in exchange for votes; VI — Use the Sicredi brand; VII — |infringe- the legislation in force, the Cooperative's Bylaws or this Code. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may provide, in the minutes, other practices that it considers prohibited. Classification of information Internal Use Art. 6 The practice of any of the infractions provided for in this Code will subject the offending Board to the following sanctions, applied alternately or cumulatively at the discretion of the Electoral Commission, without prejudice to civil and criminal liability: I — Warning -, for written; ll — Temporary suspension of any propaganda manifestation of the ticket, in any medium and location; Ill — Revocation of the ticket’s candidacy. § 1 The application of the penalty(s) will be preceded by notification to Chapa so that, within the deadline set by the Electoral Commission, it can present a response. § 2° Whether or not the response mentioned in § 1° of this article is received, within the established period, the Electoral Commission will decide on the application of the penalty, with due communication to Chapa. § 3° All Penalties applied will be communicated by the Electoral Commission at the Assemblies. Section II Registration of the Board(s) Art. 7° The President of the Board of Directors will disclose to the membership, at least 45 (forty-five) days in advance, the holding of the first NL'ic|eo Assembly, the opening of the registration period for the (3) slate (3) for the election of the Board of Directors and/or Supervisor. § 1° The disclosure will be posted in a visible place, preferably in branches, Other forms of disclosure are provided, at the discretion of the Cooperative. This publication must contain, at a minimum: a) The registration period for the ticket, with an indication of the times; b) the place where the plate is registered; c) Indication of the documents necessary for registration of the ticket. § 2 The registration period for the slate(s) will begin with the publication mentioned in this article and will end 30 (thirty) days before the first Nucleus Assembly is held, with the application for registration be filed at the Cooperative's headquarters between 9 (nine) and 5 (seventeen) hours. § 3° The slate's registration protocol must be accompanied by the documents required by this Code, an email address or contact telephone number and be signed by one of its members, who will be the slate's representative for all purposes. § 4 Once the registration period has ended, the Cooperative will publish the list of the (3) registered slate(s) the following day. § 5° The plate(s) (s) for the Board of Directors and the slate (3) for the Fiscal Council must be independent and complete. § 6 Individual applications for candidacy for elected positions will not be accepted, and simultaneous participation on more than one ticket is prohibited. Classification of information U50 internal Art. 8 Once the registered slates have been published, any person, whether associated or not, will have a period of 2 (two) days to present an objection, duly accompanied by the documents evidence. Single paragraph. If there is an objection, a period of 2 (two) days will be opened for the contested ticket to respond and, as soon as the deadline has expired, the documentation will be forwarded to the Electoral Commission. Art. 9° Within 10 (ten) days before the First Core Assembly, the Electoral Commission will meet to: I — Decide on possible challenges; ll — Analyze compliance with legal, statutory requirements and this Code; Ill — Homo|ogar- or not the plate(s). § 1° Before of the decision on the approval or not of the plate(s), the Commission may: I — Request additional information, or determine arrangements, for compliance within 2 (two) days, and, after analyzing this, decide, as per the case; ll — For a single time, determine the replacement of candidate(s) who do not meet the corresponding requirements, for service within 2 (two) days, and must comply with the provisions of art. 8th of this Code; Ill — Accept - replacement in case of death; IV — Receive, up to 5 (five) days before the deadline set out in § 8 of this article, a single request for replacement of candidate(s), per ticket, indicating the respective substitute. § 2° The non-approval will cover the entire plate, even when the objection granted concerns only one or some of its components. § 3° There will be no appeal against the decision on the approval or not of the plate(s). § 4° Up to 3 (three) days before the first Nucleus Assembly, the Commission will publish the final nomination, in a visible place with easy access to interested parties, on the Cooperative’s premises. § 5 Once the final nomination has been announced, the approved list(s) cannot be changed, except in the case of death. § 6° In the case of a candidate (mica), after approval, replacement of a candidate is permitted in the case of withdrawal, death or when it is found that the corresponding requirements are not met. § 7° In the event that replacement is permitted after approval of the plate (§ 5° and § 6), the Electoral Commission will grant a period of 2 (two) days for the ticket to replace the candidate, observing the requirements for the candidacy and the provisions of art. 8° of this Code. Art. 10. Once the ticket(s) has been approved, the Electoral Commission must hold a meeting in order to define: Classification of information the holding of assemblies, with the use of of the Sicredi brand by any candidate; ll — The operational aspects related to election and voting, especially when there is more than one regularly registered ticket. Sole paragraph. The Electoral Commission may invite representatives of the slates to participate in the meeting referred to in this article. Art. 11. Regardless of the way in which members of the Administrative and Fiscal Councils are chosen, the registration of candidates and/or slates in the Nucleus Assembly or in the general meeting. Section Ill Documents Art. 12. Along with the request for a protocol for each candidate, the applicants are responsible for delivering the documents for each candidate, listed below, the veracity of which will be verified by the Electoral Commission, using the means available to them a) Copy authenticated identification document and CPF; b) Declaration of disqualification from holding the position, if elected to the administrative or supervisory body; c) Negative certificates or positive effects with negative effects on debts of federal, state and municipal taxes and contributions, including those of any company of which he is the controller or administrator; d) Civil, state and federal certificate, from the respective domiciles and where the activity is carried out, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery, including from any company of which it is the controller or administrator; e) Criminal, state and federal certificate of the respective domiciles, issued no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for delivery; f) Electoral criminal certificate, issued with a date not exceeding 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; g) Negative or positive certificate with negative effects on labor debts; h) Negative certificate of title protest; i) Declaration issued by the candidate that he is not on the register of issuers of bad checks (CCF); j) Copy of the last declaration for income tax, or the exemption declaration, in both cases with updated asset stratification; k) Professional CV; I) Negative certificate issued by the Court of Auditors of the State of the respective domicile, and of the Union; m) Form provided by the Cooperative duly completed and signed by all members of the (3) panel(s). Classification of information related to paragraphs "c", "d" and "h", in accordance with the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER Ill Final Provisions Art. 13. The deadlines provided for in this Code will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Sole paragraph. If the due date falls on a holiday or weekend, the deadline will be considered extended until the next day. Art. 14. The provisions set out in this Electoral Code do not apply to the election for the filling a vacant position on the Administrative or Fiscal Council that has already been elected, in which case the replacement must be previously appointed by the respective council, observing legal and statutory requirements. This Electoral Code was approved at the General Assembly held on 04/16/2021. Information classificationz U50 Internal