Tell everyone about Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste. OUR COOPERATIVE Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste is one of the 105 cooperatives that are part of the Sicredi system, with the participation of more than 88 thousand members. The cooperative has branches in Mato Grosso do Sul, in the municipalities of Sao Gabriel do Oeste, Coxim, Rio Verde de Mato Grosso, Cassiiandia, Sonora, Aicinopoiis, Paraiso das Aguas, Chapadao do Sul, Paranaiba, Costa Rica, Innocência and Aparecida do Taboado and in Goia's with Covering 32 municipalities, it has branches in the cities of Chapadao do Céu, Mineiros, Anapoiis, Itaberai, Inhumas, Uruagu, Porangatu, Goianésia, Ceres, Rialma, Sao Miguel do Araguaia, Piracanjuba, Niqueiandia and Itapuranga. Our purpose is Area of ​​activity States of operation. “Making a difference in people’s lives, providing development and making dreams come true.” Differentiators of the cooperative Offer Excellence and personalized service for members is one of the cooperative's commitments. We promote actions aimed at adding income to members and reinvesting resources in the community, always aiming for local development. Discover the main differences of being a member of our cooperative: Personalized service, 0 O 0 with an exclusive manager, r)"<\ in person, via phone or WhatsApp. And free Pix and ﬁnancial transfers via app. investments in various cooperative development programs through education. % Participation and transparency for members: you have access to results and performance, and have a voice and vote to participate in the decisions and direction of the cooperative. @ Ease and agility in your daily life through the application. Excellent ratings given by the world's main risk agencies: AA — Fitch Ratings | AAA—Moodies | AAA — Standard & Poor’s. 3 Participation in the results of the cooperative. Message from Presiciéncia L Associates and associates, in the i Jaime Antonio Rohr- President Claudio Régis Andrighetto Filho- Vice-President On behalf of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste, we address each one of you, the employees, partners and, especially , our communities. Our goal since we took over the Cooperative has always been to bring people together. If we get it right, it's not an individual person, and if we get it wrong, It's thanks to these values ​​and the seriousness we give them, that we can make a real difference in people's lives. We are proud to show that we act and share mistakes too. Today the cooperative is what it is due to the union of the board, employees and our members. I'm sure that the work they did was with a lot of love and care, aiming for the common good of everyone. When looking back and analyzing the circumstances, the feeling that emerges is one of gratitude and certainty that we follow the best path. beyond financial cooperativism. We also operate on several other fronts, which encourage social responsibility and local development. Today we have a staff of 611 employees to serve more than 88 thousand members in our cooperative and the responsibility of managing more than RS 3 billion in resources. We believe that these numbers demonstrate more than the great growth we have achieved in recent years, as a result of the expansion process that has been carried out, they also demonstrate the trust in our work and the importance of the initiatives carried out in the communities. This feeling of being on the right path has a reason. We can affirm that the path that has been followed by the cooperative for more than twenty-three years and that guides our actions and decisions on a daily basis are: the values ​​of cooperativism. In Brazil and around the world, we have observed the importance of the role played by cooperative systems, which have as I aim to transform the world into a more prosperous and fair place for everyone. We continue to work with commitment and dedication for each of you, and we are sure that people who cooperate grow! Current Board Board of Directors 2023/2027 Andre Bartoiomeu Piesanti Effective Director Antenor Woehi Effective Director Faber Lalucci Pereira de Souza Effective Director Luzicier Ruela da Silva Effective Director Francisco Vicente Razerra Effective Director Julio Sanzio Viiela Effective Advisor Lourival Gessi Nunes Effective Advisor Jaime Antonio Rohr President Claudio Régis Andrighetto Filho \/icevPresident Dorvaiino Vieira Effective Advisor Marcos Fernando Gaidiano Rodri ues Executive Advisor Fiscal Council 2022/2025 Evaristo Kohl Effective Advisor Hernando Beiafonte, Supporting Board Jones Roberto Galeazzi Effective Advisor Luiz Aparecido Half Effective Director Niio Alves Ferraz Alternate Director Fabio Renato de Limar Carlos Deputy Advisor Sergio Luiz Alves Effective Advisor Expansion and consolidation New branches opened Following the expansion project on Goiás soil and with the objective of contributing to the development of the regions in which it operates, bringing the benefits of cooperativism, Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste opened in 2023, four agencies in the municipalities of Anapoiis (Agéncia Brasil Norte and Agronegocios), Porangatu and Sao Miguel do Araguaia. 79 5 _ 11‘ :23 opening in Anapoiis/GO It happened in April inauguration in Porangatu/G0 It happened in May Being increasingly closer to people is one of Sicredi's purposes and for this reason, it always develops innovative actions to strengthen this relationship. Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste acquired and implemented three mobile service units in its area of ​​operation, which allow employees to take financial solutions to associates and the community using a van. Opening in S50 Miguel do Araguaia/GO It happened in July. The van was customized and has personalized furniture and a complete infrastructure, internet and TV. The distinguishing feature of this itinerant agency is its supply of renewable energy. The Movei Agency follows the same standard as all of our physical units. Anyone who visits us will find an inviting, modern, functional, simple space with personalized service. In total there are three vans, one each for the region and this way it will be possible to resolve any doubts members, contract products and services, initiate financing proposals and publicize the Cooperative's actions. Cooperativism in practice When we invest in people, we increase their chance of making a difference in the world. Cooperativism supports the transformation of society and sustainable development, therefore, this is one of our greatest commitments to associates and communities. Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste operates through the A Uniao Faz Program Life (PUFV) in six municipalities in Mato Grosso do Sui: Chapadao do Sui Sao Gabriel do Oeste, Rio Verde de Mato Grosso, Aparecida do Taboado, Coxim e, Costa Rica and in Goias, there are three municipalities: Anapoiis, Sao Miguel do Araguaia and Goianésia. -_ MUEU ‘ ' -. ﬁerlllﬁliiiovébob nu: In the cooperative, there are more than 5600 students and more than 490 teachers impacted by PUFV, who developed approximately 108 projects throughout the year in nine municipalities in the two states where the PUFV operates. Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste. Furthermore, during the school year, several projects were carried out in schools, involving children and young people: cooperation; at the tip of the ldpis Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste believes that, through financial education, it is possible to transform the relationship with money and, thus, achieve more independence and freedom. The “Cooperagao na Ponta do Lapis” program aims to help promote a sustainable financial life. The movement in this program is carried out to provide new opportunities for the communities in which Sicredi is present and, therefore, boost the growth of members. All actions are designed to promote a more prosperous society. Q pl"Ogl"CllT'lCl CTQSCQT Crescer, Sicredi's cooperative education program, offers moments to spread knowledge about credit cooperatives. By understanding the importance of this business model and its role in society, the member participates more actively in the cooperative, generating better results for everyone. 8699 members trained \ PFOQTGTTIG belong Preparatory Meeting Assemblies 2023 Regional MS, Assemblies Assemblies are annual events that take place in all regions where we operate and are a differentiator of our cooperative model. Preparatory Meeting 2023 Central and North Goiano Regional Assemblies. This is an opportunity for Sicredi members to put into pro’/ticates its role as owner, deciding the direction of the cooperative. Because this is how, in a democratic and transparent way, we reach decisions that make a difference for your community and your life. Therefore, in 2023, we held our assembly from March 17th to 31st, which took place virtually and was attended by more than 21 thousand members. ‘P social fund Sicredi Celeiro Centro Oeste, a cooperative committed to social responsibility, through of its members, created the Social Fund in 2020. Since 2021, it has supported projects of collective interest focused on education, sport, culture, health, safety, environment and social inclusion. In addition to developing the community where the cooperatives are located, the Social Fund is synonymous with the 79 principle of cooperativism: interest in the community. The project is transforming the communities where it operates, and in the two years of existence, it has already benefited 116 projects, which combined with the actions solidarity carried out by the Cooperative, totaling investments of around R$ 2,445,341.88. With this initiative, the institution reaffirms its commitment to contributing to a fairer and more prosperous future for all. 116 SOCIAL PROJECTS CONTEMPLATED 24 AACENCES TOTAL OF RS 2,445,341.ss 6 INVESTED IN PROJECTS AND SOLIDARITY ACTIONS + THAN 200 THOUSAND PEOPLE BENEFITED 22 MUNICIPALITIES Solidarity Easter Campaign, benefiting more than 7 thousand children and elderly people in the municipalities where we operate wire cooperative. The campaign mobilized members to donate chocolate eggs and also included the allocation of more than RS 130 thousand in resources from the Social Fund. In total, more than 10 thousand items were distributed, including boxes of chocolates, Easter eggs and sweet kits. The estimate is that at least 7,110 people and 34 social assistance entities have benefited from the I Dia‘ \ de action. Cooperate \______// Thus, with the aim of promoting social responsibility and taking development for communities, among the initiatives, a mobilization was carried out, with associates and collaborators, to collect non-perishable food, which resulted in 466 basic food baskets, 794 liters of whole milk, around 584 hygiene and cleaning items, 409 blankets, 200 packets of fraidas and 42 school kits. The proceeds were allocated to social entities and families in situations of social vulnerability in the municipalities where Sicredi Celeiro Centro operates. West. The estimate is that more than 20 social assistance entities and more than 6,440 people will directly benefit from the donations. Every year, in the month of July, we celebrate C Day (Cooperate Day), a national initiative organized by the OCB System (Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives) that seeks to demonstrate the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. On that day, participating organizations carry out social responsibility actions in communities, through actions of volunteering. POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE COMMUNITY Holding of the 1st Annual Forum on Economics and Credit Cooperatives On July 11th, the 1st Annual Forum on Economics and Credit Cooperatives was held in the city of Anapoiis in Goias. The initiative was attended by more than 700 people and provided members, authorities and guests present with information about trends in the country's economic market and the importance of credit cooperatives in this context. A The program was divided between panels and lectures that brought together names such as director of economic policy at the Central Bank of Brazil Diogo Abry Guillen, CNN political commentator Caio Coppolla and also members of the cooperative, such as Jaime Antonio Rohr, Celso Figueira, Sérgio Aparecido da Silva , Alexandre Englert, Pedro Lutz Ramos and Eduardo Duarte. The event was broadcast live on YouTube and is available in full. Click and check. Together we build a result that stays here Every time a member uses our solutions, they guarantee greater participation in the cooperative's results and help their region to develop. See the illustration how we grow together: Pouaangci Resources in the region Antam-0 \ at Sicredi. , , ' trader, it's worth going to \/ Sicredi to look for resources to invest in your store. Advantages for members Results in society As resources remain in the region, the entire society is impacted with a more heated Economy, generation of income and quality of life. 0 title recovers With the local economy improving, Sicredi receives more investments from the population and, thus, the cycle never stops. As Sicredi, Jorge and Antonio are members, they have more competitive and fair rates, in addition to the right to distribution of the cooperative's results. Stay up to date with what is join us in our cooperative. Meet Theo, our virtual assistant on WhatsApp. It can resolve doubts and perform services through the use of artiﬁcial intelligence. Available 24 hours a day to assist you on our WhatsApp (51) 3358 4770.