4:. l4,_v CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL BCB Normative Instruction No. 77 of 11/2/2021 Current version, updated on 3/31/2022 BCB NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 77, OF FEBRUARY 11, 2021 Establishes procedures relating to the sending of documents and information ;6es, responses to demands and filing of appeals, the formalization of requirements, the communication of the decision and other communications related to the instruction and the examination of authorization processes conducted by the Department of Organization of the Financial System (Deorf), and other measures. The Head of the Financial System Organization Department (Deorf), in the use of the attribution conferred on him by art. 23, item I, line "a", of the Internal Regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil, attached to Ordinance no. 84,287, of February 27, 2015, and taking into account the provisions of art. 40 of Law No. 9,784, of January 29, 1999, R E S O L V E: Procedures for filing claims, responding to demands and filing resources Art. 19 Financial institutions, other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil, institutions that are part of the Brazilian Payment System (SPB), and other interested parties in the claims listed in Section 3.4.20 of the Organization Manual of the Financial System (Sisorf), for the purposes of instructing authorization processes whose technical analysis is conducted by the Department of Organization of the Financial System (Deorf), they must forward, through the Central Bank Digital Protocol system (Digital Protocol), available on the website of this Authority on the internet: I — the documents and information provided for in the relevant regulations; . Single paragraph. Responses to the demands and appeals filed, referred to in section ll of this article, when not accompanied by attached documents, must be sent through the Mail System Electronic document from the Central Bank (BC Correio) and make reference to the letter that formalized the requirement or that communicated the decision, in accordance with art. 89, and the number of the Electronic Administrative Process (PE) established to analyze the claim. Art. 29 Access to the Digital Protocol must be carried out through the institutional user account registered in the Central Bank Information System (Sisbacen). Paragraph U|’llCO. In the event of requesting authorization for operation, representation of a foreign financial institution or registration of a database manager referred to in Law No. 12,414, of June 9, 2011, access must be carried out through an individual user account obtained by self-accreditation in the System Registration — Extract from the Central Bank Information Register. Art. 39 Documents and information must be filed individually and in the order in which they are presented: I — in the list of documents and information necessary for the initiation of processes, contained in the application model relating to the type of claim to be presented, referred to in Title 8 of Sisorf, available for access on the Banco Central do Brasil website; ll ~ in the letter of requirements formalized by Deorf; III — in the text of the appeal. § 19 Documents and information related to the same claim must be associated with the application or, in the case of a response to demands or an appeal, with the first document protocolized, using the linking functionality available in the Digital Protocol. § 29 In the event that the claim to be presented does not have an application model established by Sisorf, the documents and information must be filed in the order in which they are presented in the regulations relevant to the type of claim. § 39 Applications, letters, letters, authorizations and declarations addressed to Deorf must contain name, CPF registration number and respective digital signature of subscribers. (Included, as of 4/19/2022, by BCB Normative Instruction No. 231, of 1/25/2022.) <https://www.bcb.gov.br/estabilidadeﬁnanceira/exibenormativo? type=|nstru%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20Normativa%20BCB&number=231> § 49 The digital signature of the documents referred to in § 39 must be carried out by means of: (includqas of 4/19/2022, by the instruction BCB Regulation n9 231, of 1/25/2022.) <https://www.bcb.gov.br/estabilidadeﬁnanceira/exibenormativo? type=|nstru%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20Normativa%20BCB&number=231> I — digital certificate issued by the |CP—Brazil Certification Authority, in the PAdES standard; or _(|included, as of 4/19/2022, by BCB Normative Instruction no. 231, of 1/25/2022.) <https:[/www.bcb.gov.br/estabilidadeﬁnanceira/exibenormativo? type=|nstru%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20Normativa%20BCB&numero=231> ll — gov.br account with security level and silver or gold access. (included, as of 4/19/2022, by BCB Normative Instruction No. 231, of 25/1/2022.) <https://www.bcb.gov.br/estabilidadeﬁnanceira/exibenormativo? type=|nstru%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20Normativa%20BCB&numero=231> Art. 49 Documents and information must be sent by filling in the following fields on the initial screen of the Digital Protocol: I — "Description"; ll ~ "Electronic Administrative Process Number — PE", if any; III — "Subject"; and IV ~ "Fate". § 19 In the case of initial instruction of requests for authorization to operate, the field "Description" must be completed: I — for the application, the first document to be filed, with the components: "Institution — Type of claim"; and ll — for other documents associated with the claim, filed in sequence, with the components: "Institution — Type of document — Name of the individual or corporate name of the legal entity (if applicable)". § 29 In the case of initial instruction of other types of claim, the "Description" field must be completed: I — for the application, first document to be filed, with the components: "CNPJ — Institution ~ Corporate Act Data — Type of claim"; and ll — for other documents associated with the claim, filed in sequence, with the components: "CNPJ ~ Type of document — Name of the individual or corporate name of the legal entity (if applicable)". § 39 When submitting a response to demands or an appeal, the "Description" field must be completed: I — for the first document to be filed, with the components: "CNPJ (if any) ~ Institution ~ Content"; and ll ~ for other associated documents, filed in sequence, with the components: "CNPJ (or, failing that, "|nstitution") — Type of document — Name of the individual or corporate name of the legal entity (if applicable) ". § 49 To compose the "Description" field, referred to in this article, the institution or its representative must consider that the component: I — "CNPJ" corresponds to the registration number (first eight digits) of the institution holding the claim in the National Register of Legal Entities (CNPJ), with the format nn.nnn.nnn; ll ~ "lnstitution" corresponds to: a) the trade name or the acronym or corporate name intended by the requesting institution, in the case of the claims referred to in §19 of this article, with the exception of payment institutions and those establishing payment arrangements, which must comply with the provisions of paragraph "b" of this section; or b) the trade name or acronym or corporate name of the institution holding the claim, in other cases; III — "Corporate act data" corresponds, when applicable, to the acronym and date of the corporate act that is related to the claim presented; IV — "Type of claim" corresponds to the type of authorization claim presented, as specified in Section 3.4.20 of Sisorf; V — "Content" corresponds, when applicable, to the indication that the document sent refers to a response to a requirement or a resource; VI — "Type of document" corresponds to the summary of the descriptive text of the documents and information necessary for the instruction of processes listed in the list contained in the application model referred to in Title 8 of Sisorf, relating to the type of claim to be presented, observing the provisions of §29 of art. 39, or the letter of demands formalized by Deorf or the text of the appeal, as applicable; and VII — "Name of the individual or corporate name of the legal entity" corresponds to the name of the individual or corporate name of the legal entity related to the document, in the case of documents and information relating to members of the control group, holders of qualified participation or people elected or appointed to hold a position in a corporate body. § 59 The "Subject" field must be filled in by selecting the option "Authorizations and Licensing for Supervised Institutions and SPB Members". § 69 The "Destination" field must be filled in by selecting the organizational component of Deorf to which the claim must be presented, according to the list available in Subsection 3.4.30.12 of Sisorf. § 79 The examples and standards to be observed when filling in the "Description" field are set out in Annex I to this Normative Instruction. Art. 59 Claims whose instruction, including with regard to responses to formalized requirements, has been filed incompletely, untimely or in disagreement with the required format, will be subject to archiving, considering the particularities of the specific case. Single paragraph. The provisions of this article may also be applied when any of the following occurrences are determined: I — sending documents and information that do not comply with the provisions of articles 29, 39 and 49 of this Normative Instruction; II — failure to send or incorrect or incomplete sending of application, declaration, authorization and registration form models, available on Sisorf; III — absence of mandatory registrations or incorrect mandatory records in the Central Bank's Interest Information System (Unicad); IV — failure to receive a message sent by Deorf in accordance with art. 89, within 5 business days, counted from the date of issuance; V — sending applications or documents without signatures; VI — failure to send files of Articles of Association or Social Contracts in ".rtf" format through the File Transfer System (STA); VII — failure to send or incorrect or incomplete sending of the Composition Map of Capital, through the STA; or VIII — failure to send electronic spreadsheets with information for analyzing the economic and financial viability of the intended enterprise. Art. 69 Exceptionally, in claims where it is necessary to send spreadsheets or other types of files, not supported by the Digital Protocol, the person or institution must contact the Deorf component to which the institution is under jurisdiction, according to the available list in Subsection 3.4.30.12 of Sisorf. Art. 79 In case of unavailability, or any other technical problem with the Digital Protocol, the person or institution must contact the BCB ICT Call Center, by telephone (61) 3414-2156 or by e-mail support.ti@bcb .gov.br. Procedures for formalizing requirements, communicating decisions and communications in general by Deorf Art. 89 The formalization of requirements, communicating the decision taken and other communications related to the instruction and examination of Authorization processes conducted by Deorf will be carried out through a letter digitally signed by a competent server and forwarded to: I — the requesting institution, by message from BC Correio, in the case of processes in which the holder of the application is an institution authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil ; and II — when it comes to formalizing requirements, to the electronic address (e-mail) of the following individuals: a) in the case of an institution requesting authorization to operation: 1. the applicant's representative(s); 2. the alleged controller(s); or 3. the intended holder(s) of qualifying holdings; and b) in the case of an institution authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil: 1. the people referred to in paragraph "a"; 2. the controller(s) themselves; or 3. the holder(s) of qualifying holdings. § 19 The message sent in the form of item ll must contain the indication of /in/< for access to the aforementioned office in the caput. § 29 Communications to institutions that do not have access to BC Correio will be carried out in the manner mentioned in item II, paragraph "b", of the caput of this article. § 39 The link referred to in section ll of the caput of this article will only be sent to email | of individuals who have completed self-accreditation at the Registry. § 49 The office referred to in the caput of this article must: I — have as an annex the approved statute or social contract, in the hypothesis of having been deliberate statutory reform or contractual change; and ll — contain the list of elected or appointed people whose names have been approved to hold a position in a statutory or contractual body, in the case of claims relating to the election or appointment of these people. §59 At Deorf's discretion, the requirements and other communications referred to in the caput of this article may be formalized exclusively by message in BC Correio, without sending an official letter. General and transitional provisions Art. 99 Relocation of members of corporate bodies must be communicated to the responsible Deorf component through BC Correio, informing the details of the corresponding corporate act. Art.10. Circular Letter No. 4,074, dated July 24, 2020, is hereby revoked. Art.11. This Normative Instruction comes into force on March 19, 2021. JOSE REYNALDO DE ALMEIDA FURLANI Annex I Examples of Document Description for Process Instruction: Below are examples of how to fill in the field "Description" of the Digital Protocol screen, for each document filed, as provided in art. 49 of this Normative Instruction, presented in the following order: 1. Authorization to operate a Bank l\/|LJ|t1'p|o; 2. Authorization to operate a Direct Credit Society; 3. Authorization to operate a Payment Institution; 4. Approval of election and statutory reform; 5. Approval of capital increase; 6. Response to requirements; 7. Interposition of appeal. Example 1: Type of application: Authorization to operate a Multi-Bank Sisorf Model 8.1.10.44: REQUEST - FAVORABLE STATEMENT TO THE PROPOSAL FOR A DEVELOPMENT RELATING TO THE CONSTITUICIX OF iNsTiTLJI(;/So Corporate name intended by the applicant institution: Banco ABCD S.A. Trade name or acronym intended: Banco ABCD Name of the controller or holder of qualified participation: "José Abcd" Field "Description" of each document: 1. Request, first document to be protocoladoc "Banco ABCD ~ Authorization to operate"; 2. Other documents linked or associated with the first document, contained in the application: a) "BANCO ABC) ~ identification of controllers and holders of qualified holdings"; b) "BANCO ABC) — Draft statement of purpose"; c) "BANCO ABC) — Indication of form of corporate control"; d) "BANCO ABC) — Executive summary"; e) "BANCO ABC) — Declaration ~ Jose Abcd"; f) "BANCO ABCD — Demonstration of business knowledge — José Abcd"; g) "BANCO ABC) — Origin of resources"; h) "BANCO ABC) — Authorization to the Federal Revenue — José Abcd"; i) "BANCO ABCD ~ Authorization to the Central Bank — José Abcd"; j) "BANCO ABCD — Foreign authority"; k) "BANCO ABCD — Registration form — José Abcd"; l) "BANCO ABCD ~ Organizational Chart" Example 2: Type of request: Authorization to operate a Direct Credit Society Sisorf Model 81.10.66: REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE A DIRECT CREDIT SOCIETY OR BETWEEN PEOPLE LOAN COMPANY Corporate name intended by the applicant institution: ABCD Sociedade de Crédito Direto S.A. Trade name or intended acronym: ABCD SCD Name of the controller or holder of qualifying participation "José Abcd" Name of the elected Director: "Joao Abc" Field "Description ;ao" of each document: 1. Application, first document to be filed: "ABCD SCD — Authorization to operate"; 2. Other documents linked or associated with the first document, contained in the application: a) "ABC) SCD — AGC of DD/MM/YYYY"; b) "ABC) SCD — Subscription list"; c) "ABCD SCD —Justiﬁcat1'vafounded"; d) "ABC) SCD —|dent1'members of the control group and holders of qualified participation"; e) "ABC) SCD — Registration Form — Jose Abcd"; 1') ''ABCD SCD ~ Declaration — Jose Abcd"; g) "ABC) SCD — Origin of resources"; h) "ABC) SCD — Balango patrimonia |"; i) "ABCD SCD — IRPF year — calendar YYYY — José Abcd"; j) "ABCD SCD ~ lndication form of corporate control"; k) "ABCD SCD — Authorization to the Federal Revenue — José Abcd"; l) "ABCD SCD — Authorization to the Central Bank — José Abcd"; m) "ABCD SCD — Organizational chart"; n) "ABCD SCD — Authority foreign"; 0) ''ABCD SCD — Information about the investment fund"; p) "ABCD SCD — Shareholders' agreement"; q) "ABCD SCD — Usufruct contract"; r) "ABCD SCD ~ Declaration and authorizations — João Abcd"; s) "ABCD SCD — Technical qualification declaration — João Abcd"; t) "ABCD SCD — Curriculum — Joe Abcd". Example 3: Type of claim: Authorization to operate a Payment Institution Model Sisorf — 8.13.10.15: REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE A PAYMENT INSTITUTION Corporate name of the institution "Example Servigos de Pago S.A." Trade name or acronym : "Example |P" CNPJ: 99.999999/9999-99 Corporate Act: Extraordinary General Meeting of DD/MM/YYYY Identification of control group members and holders of qualified participation: "José Abcd", "Joao or associated with the first document, contained in the application: a) "Exemp 0 IP — Reasoned justification"; b) "Example IP —|dent1'fica¢; to members of the control group and holders of qualified participation"; c) "Example IP ~ Registration Form ~ José Abcd"; d) "Example of IP - Formulério Cadastral - Joéo Xyz"; e) "Example 0 IP - Formulério Cadastral - Carlos Wyz"; f) "Example IP ~ Declaragao - José Abcd"; g) "Example 0 IP - Declaragéo - Joao Xyz"; h) "Example of IP - Declaragao - Carlos Wyz"; i) "Example IP - Organogram"; j) "Example IP ~ Indicago form of corporate control"; k) "Example IP - Shareholders Agreement"; l) "Example of IP - Agreement on usufruct"; m) "Example IP ~ Authorizagoes ~ José Abcd"; n) "Example IP - Authorizagoes - Joéo Xyz"; o) "Example IP — Authorizations — Carlos Wyz"; p) "Example IP — Company authorizations"; q) "Example IP — Controller financial statements"; r) "Example IP — IRPF year — address YYYY — José Abcd"; s) "Example IP — IRPF year — calendar YYYY — Joao Xyz"; t) "Example IP — IRPF year — calendar YYYY — Carlos Wyz"; u) "Example IP — Financial statements |P"; v) "IP Example — Foreign Authority"; w) "IP Example — Bylaws"; x) "Example IP —AGE of DD/MM/YYYY"; y) "Example IP — Declaration and authorizations — Maria Abcd" z) "Example IP ~ Technical qualification declaration — Maria Abcd"; aa) "Example IP — CV — Maria Abcd"; bb) "Example IP — Call notice"; cc) "Example | IP — EGM of DD/MM/YYYY"; dd) "Example IP — Subscription list"; ee) "Example IP — proof of bank deposit"; ff) "Example IP — proof of origin of resources — José Abcd"; gg ) "Example IP — proof of origin of resources — Joao Xyz"; hh) "Example IP — proof of origin of resources — Carlos Wyz"; ii) "Example IP — Volume of payment transactions". Example 4: Type of claim: Election and Statutory Reform Model Sisorf 3.2.10.2; REQUEST FOR APPROVAL; CREDIT COOPERATIVA Social name of the institution "Coopexemplo — Economy and mutual credit cooperative for employees of Example S.A." Trade name or acronym: "Coopexemplo" CNPJ: 99.999999/9999-99 Corporate Act: Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly of DD/MM/YYYY Name of elected Director: "Maria Abcd" Names of elected Fiscal Councilors: "José Abcd", "Joao Xyz" and "Carlos Wyz" Field "Description" of each document: 1. Request, first document to be filed : "99,999,999 — Coopexample — AUG/E of DD/MM/YYYY — Election and statutory reform" 2. Other documents linked or associated with the first document, in the order in which they are listed in the Request: a) "99,999,999 — Statement of Purpose"; b) "99,999,999 — Call Notice"; c) "99,999,999 — AUG/E of DD/MM/YYYY"; d) "99,999,999 — Declaration and authorizations — Maria Abcd"; e) "99,999,999 — Technical qualification declaration — l\/laria Abcd"; f) "99,999,999 — CV — Maria Abcd"; g) "99,999,999 — Declaration and authorizations — José Abcd"; h) "99,999,999 — Declaration and authorizations — João Xyz"; i) "99,999,999 — Declaration and authorizations — Carlos Wyz". Example 5: Type of claim: Capital increase Model Sisorf 83.10.13; REQUEST FOR APPROVAL FOR INCREASE IN CAPITAL IN CONSORC|O ADMINISTRATOR— ANONIIVIA SOCIETY Corporate name of the Institutionoz "Consorcio Example Administradora de Consorcios S.A." Trade name or acronym: "Example Consortium" CNPJ: 99.999999/9999-99 Corporate Act: Extraordinary General Meeting of DD/MM/YYYY Field "Description" of each document: 1. Request, first document to be filed: "99.999.999 — Consortium Example — EGM of DD/MM/YYYY — Capital Increase" 2. Other documents linked or associated with the first document, in the order in which they are listed in the Request: a) "99,999,999 — Call Notice"; b) "99,999,999 — AG OF DD/MM/YYYY"; c) "99,999,999 — Bylaws"; d) "99,999,999 — Subscription list"; e) "99,999,999 — Proof of bank deposit"; f) "99,999,999 — Reasoned justification for the operation". Example 6: In response to demands made by Deon‘, when it is not possible via BC Correio as it is necessary to send attached documents, the "Description" field of the Digital Protocol must be completed as follows: Content: Response to requirements Trade name or acronym or corporate name of the Institutionoz lnstituicao to be filed "99,999,999 — Institution Declarations and Authorizations — José Abcd"; b) "99.999.999 — Curriculum — José Abcd". Example 7: When filing an appeal against the decision of rejection to Deon', when it is not possible via BC Correio as it is necessary to send documents attachments, the "Description" field of the Digital Protocol must be completed as follows: Content: Resource Trade name or acronym or corporate name of the Institutionoz Institution XYZ Declaration of the Elected: João Xyz 1. First document to be filedz "99,999,999 — Institution XYZ — Appeal" 2. If it is necessary to send a linked or associated document: "99,999,999 — Declaration — João Xyz"