05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - ANNEX VI COOPERATIVE REGISTRATION MANUAL CHAPTER I BASIC INFORMATION FOR the REGISTRATION 1. COMMON DOCUIX/IENTAQAD REQUIRED Under the terms of the sole paragraph of art. 37 of Law No. 8,934, of 1994, in addition to the constitution, amendment and termination documents, no other documents will be required, in addition to those below, specifically 1.1. REQUEST (PROCESS COVER) Registration requests will be Filed upon request by the Commercial Authority, signed by the president or attorney-in-fact, with general or speciﬁc powers that must be identified (full name in full, CPF, e-mail| and telephone number). Note: In the case of digital registration, it is not necessary to use this application used by the Board of Trade to consolidate the data of the act submitted for archiving and request the following: 1.2. POWER OF ATTORNEY Power of attorney with speciﬁc powers when the application is signed by procur: Notes: I. In the case of an illiterate or relatively incapacitated grantor, the power of attorney must be public. II. The power of attorney may, at the discretion of the interested party, only instruct the application (preferably, using the specific event) to be archived, or be archived in a specific act). In this last hypothesis, with payment of the service price due. III. The filing of a power of attorney in a specific act does not require it to be attached to acts [the instrument intended to record the number of the archiving, under which the power of attorney was 1.3. NATIONAL REGISTRATION FORM (FCN), WHICH COULD BE EXCLUSIVELY The FCN must be presented together with the instruments of incorporation, upon extinction. Note: If the Board of Trade uses an integration system between regional bodies that allows electronic transmission of data, the presentation of this document is not required. 1.4. ONE-WAY DEFERRED FEASIBILITY CONSULTATION or i RESEARCH. PREVIEW) 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/‘KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - By way of illustration, the activities listed below are not subject to requirement by the Boards of Trade, according to the sole paragraph of the art. 35 of Law No. 8,934, of 1994. COI prior to its operation, and the respective legislation must therefore be observed. Central Bank of Brazil — BCB CNAE/Object Act of registration Description/Specification Multiply Banks; Commercial Banks; General meeting, Meeting of the Board of Directors or Board of Directors, Articles of Incorporation and its amendments, Public Deed of Incorporation and Constitution and Authorization « Caixa Economncas Operation; Development Banks; other similar corporate acts. Investment Banks; Dissolution, Ordinary Liquidation and Raising of (ordinary liquidation regime) Exchange Banks; Credit, Financing and Investment Societies; Change of corporate control Credit Societies Real estate; Entry of shareholder or quotaholder with qualified participation or with rights corresponding to Qualified Participation Companies Assumption of the status of * Securities and Securities Distributors in percentage lg Companies or more than fifteen per cell Mortgages; d0 Capital of the Companies - - - ~ of :":J:::Ja%:§;::‘:;':a Cémbio and of Securities and Securities; . . N. S . data P_artIcIpa9§1o str_angeIra_ no C‘(’)‘r3::tOraS de Slstema Fmancenro Naclone Cémbio; Companies Merger, spin-off or incorporation 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/'KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Election or appointment of member of statutory or contractual body Contractual amendment Statutory reform Authorization for development agency to carry out commercial leasing operations Cancellation of authorization: for the development agency to carry out leasing operations Corporate transformation Change in regulation of the branch of a foreign ﬁnancial institution in the country Change in regulation of the branch of a foreign ﬁnancial institution in the country Change of corporate name Transfer of social health to another municipality Change of capital Agency installation at Pz Cooperativas de Crédito. Constitution and Authorization « Operation Dissolution and Ordinary liquidation and withdrawal of the ordinary liquidation regime Transformation of credit union incorporation, merger and dismemberment 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/'KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Statutory reform Contractual change Election or appointment of member of public or contractual body Change of corporate name Transfer of headquarters to another municipality Change of capital Corporate transformation Dissolution and Liquid « Ordinary and Iiquidation regime Observation The following acts do not depend on prior approval from BACEN: a) Asset — securitization of corporate assets and relevant businesses; b) Independent Investment Agent; c) Correspondent in PaI's; d) Administration of credit cards; e) Commercial Development (factoring); f) Opening of Cooperative Service Points — PACs; g) Change of address within the same municipality, without reform of the bylaws; h) Acquisition of property; i) Change in the contract of a tourism agency; j) Relocation of positions, within the same statutory body, of members already previously approved by the Central Bank; and k) Corporate acts that do not include deliberations that depend on approval by the Central Bank (mainly AGMs without election of rnnrnlcu-an nln A»-«Ran r\r\§¢-\§|I§¢-'\y-: r\r\ f\ r\r\rv\ u-pd-'n-nan r\r\§¢-\§|I§¢-'\y-:¢-\\ 05/12/2022 07: 41 INSTRUQ/'KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - INSTRUCTION NORMATIVE N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - quotas, contract of usufruct of voting rights on quotas or shares and quotaholders’ agreement. Private Insurance Superintendency — SUSEP Coordinates—Gera| of Authorizations and Special Regimes — CGRAT CNAE/Object Act of registration Description/Specification Types of companies: Insurance Companies, Capitalization Companies, Open Pension Entities General Assembly of Incorporation, Public Deed and General Assembly of Cancellation/Closure Constitution, authorization, operation and cancellations. Complementary and Local Reinsurers. authorization/activities to operate and transformation. Segéoi K FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES, OF Ordinary and/or Extraordinary General Meeting. Dissolution and liquidation‘ INSURANCE AND RELATED SERVICES Ordinary and/or Extraordinary General Assembly and Election of statutory members. Division: 64 SERVICE ACTIVITIES Meeting of the Board of Directors. Change of corporate purpose FINANCIAL Group: 64.5 Society Change of geographic area of ​​operation. Capitalization Division: 65 — INSURANCE, Merger, spin-off or incorporation REINSURANCE, Capital reduction. Corporate transformation: OPEN, REINSURANCE AND HEALTH PLANS. Group: 65.1. Life and Non-Life Insurance Group: 65.3. Reinsurance Expansion of participation in a percentage equal to or fifteen percent of the capital 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/‘KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Group: 66.2 — Activities Head office transfer. auxiliaries to insurance, supplementary pensions and health plans Opening or closing representation depends on Change in share capital Transformation of form Transfer of control Acts of merger, spin-off or i involving a broker in Assuncao on the condition of the shareholder holding a qualified share. Expansion of participation in a percentage equal to or equal to fifteen percent of the company's capital, in an acu no way. Assembly Ordinary or Extraordinary General Meeting, Amendment of the Contract or Bylaws or the Constitutive Act with a change in the object or Social Distraction Cancellation of registration Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting, Amendment of the Contract or Bylaws or the Constitutive Act Any act that is not: contract Social. Type of company: Representation Office of Admitted Reinsurers Section: k ACTIVITIES Contract or Bylaws or Constitutive Act Ordinary General Meeting and Extraordinary, Amendment of the Contract or Bylaws or Constitutive Act. Constitutive act. Change in corporate name Election of administrators FINANCIAL, INSURANCE AND SERVICES Transfer of control RELATED Division: 65- Insurance, Reinsurance, Supplementary Pensions and Health Plans Merger, spin-off or merger involving insurance broker Group: 65.3 — Reinsurance Assuncao da condition of the shareholder holding a qualiﬁed part. 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/‘KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Division: 66 — activities auxiliary to financial services, insurance, pensions Contract or Bylaws or Constitutive Act. Election of the technical director and technical administrator. complementary and health plans Group: 66.2 — Activities auxiliary to insurance, social security Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting, Amendment of the Articles of Association. Cancellation of Contract Registration or Bylaws or Constitutive Act with the change in the object or Social Distraction. complementary and Federal Police satellite plans — PF Private Security Control — through DELESP (Private Security Control Office, in the states and in the Federal District), the CVs (Inspection Commissions in the decentralized PF police stations in the interior of the States) and the CGCSP (General Coordination of Private Security Control, central body at the PF headquarters in Brasilia) Security Act Private Personnel; and — Security Guard Training and Retraining Courses or CNAE courses/Object of registration Description Amendment _d0 Amendment, 80.11.1—01 — Property Surveillance; 'd“eS””me“t° fnxcﬂgﬁjéugf‘ 80.12.9—00 — Transport of Values; constituteggo; Company Dissolution Business or extinction. authorized 52.29.0—99 — Armed Escort; by Polici 80.20.0—OO — Electronic monitoring; C0[T1 03 36‘ objects are private security professionals (85.99.6—99 — Other teaching activities are not specified above). Observations The Commercial Boards will be able to consult which companies are authorized to operate, ask the Federal Police at the electronic address http://www.pf.gov.br/: HOME PAGE > PF SERVICES > SECURITY -\ PRIVATE > COMPANY CONSULTATIONS/ DECLARATIONS. Prior approval is not required for archiving acts relating to the constitution. 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/‘KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Arts network services. SCM transport 61'10'8/02 telecommunications — 614, SRTT 12.51 Changes in constitutional acts, which SCM Services 61 .10—8/03 contemplate multimedia communication 614 transfer of control (SCM) 12 5. corporate. ' ‘ Changes in acts S . d constitutive, which in/'99s and~ ~ art. 4 61 .10—8/9 contemplate g‘S’me”C’i%ff;‘§j5(‘)"s 9°’ “° "30 Limit transfer of control E’ . t by the company. an enormous amount of changes in constitutive art C acts, which serve Mobile Cellular Auk; 61 .20—5/01 consider (Personal Mobile Service — Pegs transfer of SMP control) Corporate resc. Changes in constitutive acts, which . . art. 2 61 .20—5/01 consider E:r\gg%|'?gg\(/f)|_ SME appro' transfer of corporate control for 2005. Changes in acts. constitutive, which Sgrra/lﬁ?§ad%O Wireless art. 4 61.20—5/99 consider the “effective goals Limit the transfer of American control by the company. Changes in art, constitutive acts, which - ~ - ' T 61 .30-2/00 consider the :§'teeffem”“'°a9°eS 9°’ Dgg transfer of corporate control. apro' 2000 Changes in constitutional acts, which - ~ ' 61 .41—8/00 contemplate Ogegggggtgge t§;eg;g° 3;; transfer of control p p in corporate 55. as al Resc 88 dz Changes in articles of incorporation, which Television Operator Sen‘, 61 .42—6/00 contemplate by signature by SeA transfer of microwave control in the corporate 55 r. 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/‘KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - interstate or international railway). Agents Energy service providers Amendment of the electric ggggtegﬁgé instrument (Public service concessionaires constitution, Minutes of meeting or b I. National Land Transport Agency — ANTT Superintendency of Regulatory Governance — SUREG CNAE/Object Act of registration Description. , . . , . ~ . a) Transfel Concessionaires or authorized Alteration of the concession instrument regular passenger transport constitution, Minutes of meeting or b) transfer' (road and assembly. comrole S (Note: Regardless of prior government authorization, the Commercial Boards constitutive acts and their changes and terminations, however, must be communicated in accordance with the sole paragraph of article 35 of Law No. 8,934, of 1994. 2.1. ACTS SUBJECT TO THE PREVIOUS ASSENT OF THE DEFENSE COUNCIL I The acts listed below depend on the prior consent of the Defense Council registered by the Commercial Board, under the terms of art. 5th of Law No. 6,634, of May 2, 1979. National Defense Council Secretariat—Executive of the National Defense Council CNAE/Object Act of registration Description/Specification Services in the border strip — Broadcasting of sound and sounds and images ; agencies, Constitutive act, amendment of the constitutive act, opening of branches; any branches, posts or establishments with power of representation NORMATIVE KO N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 2020 - any other representation or mandate establishments of the Border Strip, related to acts that require prior consent (art. 2 of Law no. 6,634, of 1979). IV — Corporate acts indicative of foreign participation in a Brazilian legal entity holding real rights over Border property, such as: increase or payment of capital from the incorporation of real estate or to include border property. Prior approval from the SE/CDN, corporate acts referring to the dissolution of companies that obtained prior consent to carry out activities in the Border Strip, in the form of which the DREI is responsible for communicating such occurrences to that Executive Secretariat, for control purposes (art. 44). 3. RESTRICTIONS AND IMPEDIMENTS TO FOREIGNERS Observe the table below for archiving acts in which participants are domiciled in Brazil, natural persons, Brazilian or foreign, resident and domiciled at the headquarters in exterior. RESTRICTIONS AND IMPEDIMENTS OF FOREIGN CAPITAL COMPANIES IN HEALTH CARE Direct or indirect participation, including control, of companies or foreign capital in health care is permitted in the following cases: I — donations from international organizations linked to the United Nations, from such cooperation technical and financing and loans; ll — legal entities intended to install, operate or operate: a) general hospital, including philanthropic, specialized hospital, po|ic|I'nic, general c|I'nic and specialized c|I'nic; and b) family planning actions and research; Ill — health services maintained, without profit, by _companies_, to care for employees and dependents, without any burden on social security; and IV — other cases provided for in specific legislation. CABOTAGE NAVIGATION COMPANY Only Brazilians may be the holder of an individual cabotage navigation company. Tra r of a business company, fifty percent plus at least one quota or share must be held by Brazilians. In any case, the administration must be speciﬁc authorization from the Brazilian government, the installation, in the country, of branches of financial institutions domiciled abroad is permitted. The increase in percentage of participation of individuals or legal entities residing or domiciled abroad in the capital of financial institutions headquartered in the country, without said authorization. (Brazilian government may issue a decree specifically authorizing the conduct described when resulting from international agreements, reciprocity, or when it is in the interest of the Brazilian. Note: Under the terms of Decree No. 10,029, of 2019, the Central Bank of Brazil Brazil is authorized to re-assign interest of the Brazilian Government: I — the installation, in the country, of new branches of financial institutions domiciled abroad; II — the increase in the percentage of participation in the capital of financial institutions headquartered in individuals or legal entities resident or domiciled abroad. Recognition of interest will depend on meeting the requirements established in regulations published by the National Monetary Council and the Central Bank of Brazil. TRANSPORTATION COMPANY ROAD CARGO TRANSPORTATION The Road Cargo Transport Company must have its headquarters in Brazil. LIMITED COMPANY - ANY ACTIVITY The immigrant may be a member of the management bodies, however, he may only be a member of the fiscal council if he resides in Brazil. The inauguration of members of administrative bodies residing or domiciled abroad is conditional on the appointment of a representative residing in the country. The wholly owned subsidiary will have a Brazilian society as its sole shareholder. In the case of a SOC group, the controlling company, or the company in charge of the group, must be Brazilian. COMPANIES IN THE BORDER RANGE SOUND AND SOUND AND IMAGE BROADCASTING COMPANY The capital of the sound and sound and image broadcasting company, in the border strip, will only belong to Brazilian natural persons. Responsibility and intellectual and administrative guidance will rest solely with Brazilians. Shares or shares representing the company will be inalienable and non-cashable to foreigners or legal entities. MINING COMPANY The mining company must expressly state in its bylaws or bylaws that at least fifty-one percent of its capital will belong to Brazilians and that. Administration or management will always be the responsibility of the majority of Brazilians, assured of these predominant powers. In the case of an individual business, only Brazilians will be allowed to establish exploration of mining activities in the border strip. Administration or management is always the responsibility of Brazilians, and the delegation of powers, direction or management to foreigners is prohibited, even if by power of attorney granted by a company or individual entrepreneur. COMPANY OF COLONIZATION AND RURAL ALLOTMENTS Subject to the prior consent of the competent body, it will be prohibited, in the Border Area, the practice_<_ 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - II. Annexes to the Minutes may, At the discretion of the interested party, only submit the separate application, except for the statute when not transcribed in the Minutes, which must necessarily be air with linked processing. 1.2. BYLAWS Unless transcribed in the minutes of the general constitution meeting or in the published instrument Note: The statutes, when not transcribed in the minutes, must contain the signature of everyone < their name in full, and the other pages must be initialed, containing the visa of advogac registration number at the Order of Lawyers from Brazil. 1.3. DECLARATION OF CLEARANCE FOR THE EXERCISE OF THE POSITION OF: ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION BODIES, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED IN THE MINUTES 1.4. COPY OF THE IDENTITY OF ADMINISTRATORS (COUNSELOR AND DIRECTORS) - see art. 2 of Law No. 12,037, of October 1, 2009. 2. CONCEPTUAL ASPECTS Cooperatives are societies of people, with their own legal form and nature. object, the Law (sole paragraph of art. 982 of the Civil Code) classifies them as companies constituted to provide services to members (art. 4 of Law no. 5764, of December 16, Cooperatives have the following characteristics (art. 1,093 of the Civil Code and art. 4 < I — variability, or exemption from share capital; II — competition of partners in the minimum number necessary to compose the administration maximum number; III — limitation of the value of the sum of shares of the share capital that each partner may be entitled to IV — non-transferability of shares of the capital to third parties outside the company, even V — "quorum", for the general assembly to function and deliberate, based on the number of st in the represented share capital; VI — the right of each partner to a single vote in deliberations, whether or not they have capital based on the value of their participation; VII — distribution of results, in proportion to the value of the operations carried out, with fixed interest being able to be attributed to the paid-up capital; and VIII — indivisibility of the reserve fund among the partners, even in the event of diss( 3. MINIMUM NUMBER OF MEMBERS For constitution of a singular cooperative is necessary at least 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - I — legal entities have by object the same or related economic activities II — are constituted without profit purposes; The legal entities that are admitted must be headquartered in the respective Cooperative. Legal entities operating in the same Cooperative, except those that practice the same economic activities as those engaged in fishing and those constituted by rural or extractive producers, as well as electricity in the latter cases, as long as they are based in the area of ​​operations of the Cooperative Society (§ 5,764, of 1971). For the exercise of the legal entity's right to vote and be voted, the Company (its Bylaws or rules similar to the relevant legislation, the form of representation (5. CAPACITY TO BE A MEMBERS) According to art. 1,690 of the Civil Code is the responsibility of the parents, and in the absence of one of them, to represent members under the age of sixteen, as well as to assist them until they complete the When the member is represented or assisted, the condition must be indicated followed by the qualification of the member, including: legal name, nationality, marital status, profession. of the CPF and full address (line "d" of item III of article 53 of Decree no. 1,800, of 1996). 6. EMANCIPAQATION Proof of the minor’s emancipation, registered in the Civil Registry must instruct the separate, simultaneously with the instrument. 7. REPRESENTATION AT MEETINGS 7.1. BY MANDATE Representation by means of a representative will not be permitted (§ 1 of article 42 of Law no. 7.2. BY DELEGATES In individual cooperatives, the statute may establish that members are repr delegates who have the status of associates in the enjoyment of their social rights and does not exercise only in the following cases: I — when the number of members exceeds three thousand (§ 2 of the art. 42 of Law No. 5,764 II — when there are affiliates residing more than fifty kilometers from the headquarters (§ 4 ‘1971). i The statute must determine the number of delegates, the time and form of their es ,,:__,:,-, ,u,r,,,,, , _.,,,,, ,:,,: ,, _»:_,:,,:,u,,,,»:, n_,:,,,,-, ,____-,,u,, ,_, 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - V — approval of the bylaws; VI — declaration of incorporation of the company, indicating the denomination, operating address; VII — full name, nationality, marital status, profession and address of the administration, inspection and other members; and VIII — closing of the minutes, identified signature of all founders. Note: Loose-leaf books or index cards may be used, as provided in p. 5,764, of 1971. 8.1. INCORPORATION OF REAL ESTATE The minutes of the meeting that approves the incorporation of real estate must contain data relating to its title, as well as the number of their registration in the real estate registry, and their spouse — grants uxoria or marital (a||'neas "a" and "b" of item VII of article 35 of Law no. 8,934, of 1 9. SOCIAL BYLAWS The bylaws must indicate (art. 21 of Law No. 5,764, of 1971): I — corporate name; II — full address of the headquarters; III — duration period; IV — geographical area of ​​action of the company; V — corporate purpose, comprising the object of functioning and operational, defines VI — fixation of the social year; VII — date of Survey of the general balance sheet; VIII — minimum share capital expressed in national currency; IX — nature of the associates’ responsibility; X — rights and duties of members; XI — conditions for admission, dismissal, elimination and exclusion of members and non-members at general assemblies; XII — the minimum share capital, value of the share, the minimum number of shares, the form and term of payment, as well as the conditions for its withdrawal in cases of associated dismissal; I’ XIII — mandatory funds and other funds that may be created; 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - I — withdrawals not lower than the professional category minimum and, in its absence, r calculated proportionally to the hours worked or activities carried out; II — duration of normal work not exceeding eight hours per day and forty-four the activity, by its nature, requires the provision of work through shifts or shifts; III — paid weekly rest, preferably on Sundays; IV — paid annual rest; V — retirement for night work in excess of daytime work; VI — additional on withdrawal from unhealthy or dangerous activities; and VII — work accident insurance. The statute of the Social Cooperative may provide for one or more categories of membership services free of charge, and are not included in the definition of people in disadvantage (art. When dealing with a cooperative regulated by Law no. No. 9,867, of 1999, the term "Social Cooperative" (art. 2 of the Law No. 9,867, of 1999). 9.2. LIABILITY OF MEMBERS I — cooperative societies will have limited liability, when the company's respective commitments are limited to the value of the capital subscribed by it (art. 11 of Law no. 5.76 II — cooperative societies will have unlimited liability, when the respective commitments of the company are personal, joint and have no limit (art. 12 of Law no. 5,764, of 1! III — the responsibility of the associate towards third parties, as a member of the society after being legally required from the cooperative (art. 13 of Law No. 5,764, of 1971). 9.3. SOCIAL OBJECT The cooperative must clearly and precisely define its objective, that is, what: provided to members, as well as the operating and operational objects, carried out as outlined, informing the activities carried out (art. 4, 5 and 7 ° of Law No. 5,764, of 1971). F The objective of every cooperative society will always be the direct provision of services 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Mandatory funds are indivisible (art. 28 of Law No. 5,764, of 1971), however cooperative in business society, The destination of the legal recipient of the remaining balance and indivisible funds must be expressly stated to be the National Treasury. 9.6. SIGNATURE OF MEMBERS The statute, when not transcribed in the minutes, will contain the signature and identification of the employees 9.7. LAWYER VISA It must contain the lawyer's visa in the minutes of the constitution meeting when the When it is not transcribed, it must contain the lawyer's visa in the statute, indicating 1 inscription in the respective section of the Brazilian Bar Association. 9.8. MICRO ENTERPRISES AND SMALL ENTERPRISES Pursuant to art. 3°, § 4°, VI, of Complementary Law No. 123, of December 14, consumption can be classified as a micro-enterprise or small company. In this hypothesis, the framing, reframing and non-compliance with a small mic (EPP) will be carried out upon declaration, under penalty of law, that the company cooperates; ME or EPP, under the terms of art. 3rd, caput and paragraphs, of Complementary Law No. 123, of 2006, co I — specific clause, inserted in the statute or in its amendment, in which case the i for all members; or II — specific instrument referred to in art. 32, II, paragraph "d", of Law No. 8,934, d« of associates. Notes: I. Public price charging for the archiving of specific instrument II. Proof of the classification/reclassification or non-compliance with a small business will be carried out through a certificate issued by the Board of Trade. SECTION II GENERAL MEETING 1. SPECIFIC DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED 1.1. CERTIFICATE OR AUTHENTICATED COPY OF THE MINUTES Certificate or authentic copy of the minutes of the ordinary or extraordinary general meeting. Notes: 1 I. The certificate or copy of the minutes must contain, at the closing, the indication that it is a faithful copy of the minutes (drawn up (3. nma rlenlaranﬁn infnrmanrln miantns nnnnerarlns were present (3. ('HIE snag: 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUQUATION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUQUATION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - 1. 5. COPY OF CALL NOTICES POSTED IN APROF LOCATIONS COMMONLY FREQUENTED BY MEMBERS 1.6. COPY OF THE COMMUNICATION TO MEMBERS THROUGH CIRCL ITS PRESENTATION WHEN THE MINUTES STATE THAT THIS PROCEDURE WAS THE AND 2. CALL NOTICE The call for the general meeting Ordinary or extraordinary must be carried out with the holding of the assembly, by posting the notice on the premises of the headquarters, publishing and associated by circular letters (art. 38 of Law no. 5,764, of 1971). The attendance of all members, expressed in the minutes, cures the irregularities. The meeting may be held in second or third calls as long as it is stated in the respective notice, observing the minimum interval of one hour between the holding by Law no. 5,764, of 1971). The call to participate in General Assemblies of the cooperatives covered will be carried out through personal notification of the member and will occur with minimal advance notice: If personal notification is impossible, notification will be given by post, respecting the previous In the impossibility of personal notification and postal, the members are posted at the headquarters and in other locations provided for in the statutes and published in a major newspaper (cooperative or in the region where it carries out its activities). activities, respecting the minimum advance notice of the General Assembly. 3. "QUORUM" FOR INSTALLATION The "quorum" for installation of the General Assembly is two-thirds of the call number; half plus one of the associates, on second call; and at least no convocation, except in the case of central cooperatives, federations and confederations that exist (art. 40 of Law no. 5,764, of 1971). For work cooperatives, governed by Law No. 12,690, of 2012, the General Assemblies will be: two-thirds of the number of members at first convocation; n on second call; fifty members or, at least, twenty percent of the total number of members, on the third call, the presence of at least four members is required for the nineteen registered members (item III of § 3 of article 11 of Law no. ° 12,690, of 2012). 4. MINUTES OF THE GENERAL MEETING The minutes of the general meeting, recorded in the appropriate book, must indicate: I — full name of the cooperative and CNPJ; ll Ir\Ar\I l'\r\v-I-\ Ain .~.An f\ l'\f\f\ An r\||r\ .u-nnl:—.nn5-"sA- 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N ” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - VIII — at the closing, mention the closure of the work, with the signatures of the assembly, followed by the signatures of those present, as many as are sufficient to approve the matters. Loose-leaf books or files may be adopted, as provided paragraph 1971. 5. DELIBERATIONS The deliberations of the ordinary or extraordinary general assembly The call must be in advance. In general matters, no type of deliberation will be accepted (caput of articles 44. The minutes of the Assembly must indicate the facts that occurred and the deliberations. Registration of dissent or protests can be recorded in full, summarized or reduced form, to be transcribed , expressing the changes introduced. 6. ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 6.1. PERIOD FOR THE MEETING TO BE HELD The ordinary general meeting must be held annually in the three first months of the social year (art. 44 of Law no. 5,764, of 1971), except in the cases of credit cooperatives that post the first months of the social year (art. 17 of Complementary Law no. 130, of April 17, 2C held Assembly Extraordinary General Assembly 6.2 COMPETENCE The ordinary general assembly is responsible for the following (art. 44 of Law No. 5,764 of 1971): I — rendering of accounts of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinion of the cc a) management report; b) balance sheet; and c) statement of leftovers calculated or losses resulting from the insufficiency and expenses of the cooperative and the opinion of the Supervisory Board; II — allocation of surpluses determined or apportionment of losses; III - election of the components of the Board of Directors or Board of Directors and the Cons, as applicable; IV — when provided for, setting the value of fees, bonuses and certificates of approval for the Administration or the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council; V — any other matters of social interest, which are not within its competence; extraordinary. (art. 44 of Law No. 5,764, of 1971). 6.3.1. Dismissal of members of management and supervisory bodies 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - When there is an election of management bodies and supervision or others, and completely those elected (name, nationality, marital status, identity document, their CPF number, profession, domicile and residence), as well as mentioning the duration of the mandate of Administration and the Fiscal Council. 7. EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 7.1. PERIOD FOR THE MEETING TO BE HELD The extraordinary general meeting may be held at any time. 7.2. COMPETENCE OF THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING It is the competence of the Extraordinary General Assembly to deliberate on any matter as long as it is mentioned in the call notice, being its exclusive competence (art. 46 d. I — reform of the bylaws; II — merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III — change in the object of the cooperative; IV — voluntary dissolution of the cooperative and appointment of Liquidator; and V — Liquidator's accounts. In the absence of an Ordinary General Assembly within the legal period, the 1st may deliberate on the matters of the AGM, in accordance with art. 45 of Law No. 5,764, 1971. In the event that the Extraordinary General Assembly deliberates on statutory reform, the document will be filed in a separate process, with payment of the price due, as long as it is not followed by the respective signatures. 7.3. "QUORUM" FOR DELIBERATION The "quorum" for deliberation on the matters listed in item 7.2 above, in a meeting of thirds of the members present. The remaining deliberations will be taken by majority vote in art. 38, sole paragraph, of art. 46 of Law No. 5,764, of 1971). 7.4. TRANSFER OF HEADQUARTERS TO ANOTHER FEDERATION UNIT To transfer the cooperative's headquarters to another federation unit, the Commercial Board of the UF where the headquarters is located and the Commercial Board of the UF to where The minutes of the extraordinary general meeting, which will decide on the change of corporate headquarters, will be transferred. 7.4.1. Arrangements at the Commercial Board of the headquarters Before entering the rlnniimentann it is rennmendable nreferennially r 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - If the act of transferring the headquarters to the other UF is not carried out, and there is interest for the Board of origin, in order to regularize the situation of the cooperative, the interested party must register the Commercial Jurisdiction where the company would be transferred, which will contain the information that the act was carried out in that UF, and file it together with the change stating the new address. 8. RE-RATIFICATION GENERAL MEETING The extraordinary general meeting may re-ratify matters relating to an ordinary general meeting or an extraordinary general meeting, or a special general meeting. It is necessary that the agenda of the call notice clearly states what error in calling a meeting or calling notice, the date of the meeting that they intend to ratify must be included on the agenda, including the respective agenda. In order to facilitate archiving, the minutes subject to deliberation must be re-ratified. In the case of ratification, the reference to the ratified matters is sufficient, for su. In the case of rectification, it is necessary to rewrite the modified text, creating the new minutes. 9. ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The ordinary general meeting and the extraordinary general meeting may be held at the same place, date and time and recorded in a single minute. The documentation to be presented to the Board of Trade for archiving is determined in the sections of this Manual, specific to each meeting. The notice requirements, installation, agenda and quorum must be observed in relation to each meeting. The minutes do not need to record, separately, the deliberations of each meeting. 10. ASSEMBLY SPECIAL GENERAL In addition to holding the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly to deliberate on No. 5,764, of 1971, and the Bylaws, the Work Cooperative must hold an annual Special General Assembly to deliberate, among other matters specified in the cooperative notice, discipline, rights and duties of partners, planning and economic results of work organization. 11. OPENING, CHANGING OR CLOSING A BRANCH The opening of a branch may be included in the minutes of the meeting; or in full certificate in public form; or in minutes of a meeting of the Board of Directors or Board of Directors, 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - I. There is no obligation for the activities listed for the branches to be listed at the head office address. II. The cooperative may indicate in its constitutive acts that it will be carried out: administration at the address(es) of some of the establishments, regardless of their status III. Administration activities are those supporting or related to the management of the undertaking of any of the economic activities contained in the corporate purpose. 11.3. BRANCH IN ANOTHER FEDERATION UNIT When it is a branch in another federation unit, the act must be filed with the Commercial Board of the federation unit where the headquarters is located, since after 4 documents relating to the headquarters and branch will be sent electronically to However, before submitting the documentation to the Commercial Board of the headquarters OPENING of the first branch, CHANGE, when there is a change in the business name, par: of the company, it is mandatory that the viability approved in each Fedc Unit be presented Notes: I. The Board of Trade where the respective branch is located is responsible for only 2 storage. II. The Commercial Registry where the respective branch is located may file the act with the company filed with the Headquarters Board, however this will not make any changes except for the issuance of the full content certificate, if applicable. SECTION III SEMI-PRESENTIAL OR DIGITAL MEETINGS OR ASSEMBLY conclave, but also at a distance, in terms of item 1; or II — digital — when members can only participate and vote remotely, the conclave will not be held in any physical location. Note: This section does not apply to meetings and assemblies in which participation is exclusively in person. 1. METHODS OF PARTICIPATION AND DISTANCE VOTING * Participation and remote voting by members can occur through the em ,4, ,,,,u-,,n ,. ,_»:, ,,,,,n, -, _-_n,,,, ,u,.,:,-,-,, 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - VI. The call notice must list the documents required for legal representative members to be admitted to the semi-presential or digital meeting or assembly. VII. The company may request that the documents mentioned in the protocol be sent electronically in advance. VIII. The member can participate in the assembly or semi-presential meeting or 4 documents up to thirty minutes before of the time stipulated for the opening of work, even in advance. Notes: a) The company cannot be held responsible for problems arising from the connection to the worldwide computer network of members, as well as for any others under its control. b) The company may hire third parties to manage, on its behalf, the process of semi-presential and digital meetings or assemblies, but remains responsible for compliance c) The company must keep all documents archived relating to the digital meeting, as well as the full recording thereof, for the period applicable to the action aimed at annu|a—|a. 3. CRITERIA FOR ASSESSING ATTENDANCE For all legal purposes, one is considered present at the meeting or semi-assembly; if the associate: I — who attends it or who is physically represented there; II — whose remote voting form has been considered valid by society; or III — who, personally or through a representative, registers his presence in the Remote voting system made available by society. 4. DISTANCE PARTICIPATION 4.1. THE USE OF THE ELECTRONIC SYSTEM The electronic system adopted by the society to hold the meeting or meeting must guarantee: I — the security, reliability and transparency of the meeting; II — the attendance record of members; III — the preservation of the member’s right to participate remotely throughout the entire period IV — the exercise of the right to vote remotely by the member, as well like yours \/ — 2 nnssihilidade rie \/i_sua|i7ar*.§n rie dnnlimenfns anresenfadns ruanfe n nnnnlm/A' 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - IV — guidance on the necessary formalities for the vote to be considered Note: The company must make the remote voting form available via manual filling, through an available electronic system on the world wide web: 4.2.2. CONTENT The description of the matters to be deliberated on the remote voting ballot: I — must be written in clear, objective language that does not mislead the member; II — must be formulated as a proposal and indicate its author, so that the s rejects it or abstains; and III — may contain indications of pages on the world wide web in which more detail or which contain the documents required by law or by this section 4.2.3. SHIPPING AND RECEIVING PROCEDURE I. the bulletin The remote voting form must be sent to the member on the date of publication of the meeting or semi-presential or digital assembly to which it refers, and must be returned to the member on the date of the conclave. II. the society, within two days of receiving the remote voting ballot, must a) receive the remote voting ballot, as well as that the ballot and accompanying documents are sufficient for the member's vote to be considered valid; or b) the need for rectification or resubmission of the remote voting ballot or ID document describing the procedures and deadlines required for regularization. III. the member may rectify or resend the remote voting form or within the deadline set out in item I of this subitem. IV. The sending of a remote voting form does not prevent the member from submitting the respective semi-presential or digital vote and exercising their right to participate and vote during the period sent will be disregarded. 5. SIGNATURES OF THE MINUTES AND BOOKS The books applicable corporate documents and the minutes of the respective meeting or semi-assembly signed separately by the chairman and secretary of the board, who will certify in such documents 6. ARCHIVING OF MINUTES For registration purposes, the copy or certificate of the minutes of the meeting or semi-assembly meets the same legal requirements contained in this Manual, insofar as they do not conflict with this Notes: 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - V. In-person meetings or assemblies that have already been called and are not yet held due to the Coronavirus (Covid—19) pandemic may be held semi-permanently; all members must be present, in accordance with item 3 of this section, or declare expressly SECTION IV MANAGEMENT BODIES The cooperative will be managed by a Board of Directors or an Administrative Council 1971 ). 1. FORMATION OF BODIES The Board of Directors, which will have a primarily deliberative function, is responsible for the members. However, nothing prevents them from hiring technical or commercial managers (1971), in which case a professional board may be created, occupied by an association with a purely executive function. The Board of Directors will be subordinate to the Board of Directors. They will not be able to form part of the Administrative Bodies, in addition to those prevented from doing so, they may, even temporarily, have access to public positions; or for bankruptcy crime, concussion, embezzlement, or against the popular economy, public faith or property and direct or collateral relatives (art. 51 of Law No. 5,764, of 1971). The member cannot cumulatively hold positions in the administrative bodies of Law No. 5,764, of 1971). Members under the age of eighteen cannot exercise management functions within the Cooperative. Exceptionally, when the Cooperative does not have a Board of Directors, it will incorporate the characteristics and responsibilities of the Board (executive role and deliberative role). Credit cooperatives with The board of directors may create a board of directors as a statutory body composed of individuals, whether associated or not, indicated in Complementary No. 130 of 2009). 2. MANAGEMENT The term of office of members of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors does not exceed four years (art. 47 of Law no. 5,764, of 1971). 3. RENEWAL OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors must, obligatorily, renew its composition, not at each election (art. 47 of Law no. 5,764, of 1971) and declare that they are not in violation of the 1971 vedago. It is the responsibility of the general assembly, when the law establishes certain requirements to go 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, JUNE 10, 2020 - It is the responsibility of the general assembly, when the law establishes certain requirements to go beyond other eligibility conditions (absence of impediments), to demand the presentation of proof: 3. MANDATORY The mandate of the fiscal councilor is an exercise or of one year (art. 56 of Law no. credit cooperatives, whose term of office may be up to three years (art. 6 of Complementary Law 4. RE-ELECTION Re-election is permitted only for a third of its components (art. 56 of Law on credit cooperatives that must observe the renewal of at least two members for each alternate (art. 6 of Complementary Law No. 130, of 2009). , in accordance with Law No. 5,764, of 1971, the following will be carried out: Hold a joint General Assembly to approve the constitution of the new company. The Minutes of the meeting must contain the names indicated to compose the joint committee that will carry out the study of the company. The joint General Assembly will consider the report of the joint committee, which will be attached. assets, the general balance, the quota distribution plan, the allocation of funds and the nc. The creation of the new coc of the companies that join together must be expressed in the Minutes of the joint General Assembly. two. INCORPORATION In the event of incorporation, under the terms of Law No. 5,764, of 1971, adoptions for the merger will be observed, imitating the assessments of the assets of the cooperative to be incorporated. 3. DISMEMBERSHIP Two General Assemblies are necessary for the dismemberment to occur. The division must designate a commission to carry out the necessary studies. These contain a plan for apportioning the assets and liabilities of the spun-off company, allocation of share capital: each new cooperative and amount of quotas—parts in the case of the constitution of a central or fed will be considered in a new Assembly, called especially for this purpose. 4. TRANSFORMATION F The Minutes of the Extraordinary General Meeting that the business company deliberates on must be archived. as provided for in this Normative Instruction and decision of the Superior TribL 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Note: The certificate or copy of the minutes must contain, at the closing, the indication that is a true copy < Iavrada is a statement informing how many members were present and that their presence in the General Assemblies, and must be signed by the president and administrators. 1.2. COPY OF THE IDENTITY OF THE ELECTED LIQUIDATORS 1.3. DECLARATION OF CLEARANCE FOR THE EXERCISE OF THE POSITION OF: ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION BODIES, UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED IN THE MINUTES 2. DISSOLUTION The cooperative (art. 63 of Law No. 5764, of 1971) is: I — of full right: a) when the General Assembly so decides, provided that the associates, totalizing this Law, are not willing to ensure its continuity; b) for the duration of the term; c) for achieving predetermined objectives; d) due to the change in its legal form, except for the possibility of operating as a Normative Instruction; e) by reducing the minimum number of members or subsequent minimum share capital, carried out within a period of not less than six months, they are not reestablished; f) cancellation of authorization to operate; g) due to the interruption of its activities for more than one hundred and twenty days; II — by court decision; and III — by decision of the competent administrative authority. Once the cooperative is dissolved, liquidation is promoted, subject to the provisions of art. 6 1971, regarding the reimbursement of members and allocation of the remainder. 3. DISSOLUTION BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY When the General Assembly decides on dissolution, it will appoint one or more Iic three members to carry out its liquidation (art. 65 of Law no. 5,764, of 1971). 4. MINUTES OF THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The minutes of the extraordinary general meeting, which deliberated on the dissolution, should specifically read: 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Certificate or copy of the minutes of the extraordinary general meeting that declared the termination of the cooperative, with the prior approval of the body competent government, when 1 or Authentic copy of the judicial decision of termination, with proof of final and unappealable judgment. Note: The certificate or copy of the minutes must contain, at the end, the indication that it is a true copy < Iavrada and a statement informing how many members were present and that their Presence of Members at the General Assemblies, and must be signed by the president n administrators 2. MINUTES OF THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING The minutes of the extraordinary general meeting must contain deliberations on (art. 74 of I — rendering of accounts of the Liquidator; and II — if the accounts are approved, declaration of the closure of the Liquidation and the declaration The filing that decided the extinction of the headquarters, which contains branches in the unit of the federation of the headquarters, it will be considered extinct upon approval of the act. 3. OBLIGATIONS OF THE LIQUIDATOR REGARDING THE FILING OF ACTS The Liquidator is responsible for arranging for the filing, at the Board of Trade, of the minutes declaring the dissolution of the cooperative (item XI of article 68 of Law no. 5,764, of 1971). 4. TERMINATION OF THE COMPANY BY JUDICIAL JUDGMENT The termination of a cooperative determined by decision of a judicial authority obeying the sentence will be filed with the Commercial Board, in a separate process, with payment of the price SECTION IX OTHER FILES Acts or documents may also be archived which, by Iega Publico de Empresas determination or that may be of interest to the cooperative society. 1. NEWSPAPER AND BROADCASTING COMPANIES documents from journalistic companies and concessionaires and permission holders: for filing at the Commercial Board in accordance with the provisions of arts. 4th and 7th of Law No. 10.61 following requirements, cumulativelyz I — the act containing the composition of its share capital, including the appointment of the bi for more than ten years directly or indirectly holders, of at least seventy percent I' formally instructed and filed with the Commercial Board; and 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81, OF 10 DE JUNE 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - I — the document must be produced by the agent granting the exclusivity in the form of a "Letter of Exc|usivity", or; document certifying that the interested party is the only worker or service, issued by the Union, Federation or Employer Confederation relevant to the category; II — at least one copy of the document must be original; and III — the document originating from abroad, in addition to meeting items I and II above, must also be Brazilian in the country of origin or the apostille under the terms of the Convention on the Elimination of Foreign Public Documents, concluded in The Hague, on October 5, 1961, and be a sworn public translator. 5. JUDICIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS Judicial orders addressed to the Board of Trade, by the respective court, will have their respective cooperative. When dealing with a decision of a transitory nature, such as the preliminary rulings, the anticipation is archived, with its content noted in the records of the respective cooperative, accompanied by a revocable, non-definitive decision. Administrative decisions that, by force of law, are directed to the Junta Comer registers of the respective cooperative. Judicial or administrative decisions are subject to registration by the cooperative, documents of interest, with payment of the due price. Notes: I. The registration of court decisions will lead to an immediate change in the registration of the act of statutory change. II. Changing the registration data of the cooperative will be carried out through annotation pursuant to a court decision (Decree No. 10,173, of December 13, 2019). SECTION 2. EXCEEDINGS The provisions of this item of the Manual do not apply (sole paragraph of article 1 of Law no. ,_ ___,,,,;-,,, J, ,__-_u,-,,-, g _,r,,:, ,, :_,,,, J, u,,-_u,,» :, J, _,r,,:, _ ,,u,,,,, 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF 10 DE JUNE 2020 - 5. BYLAWS (article 7 of Law No. 12,690, of 2012) The bylaws of the Work Cooperative must indicate in relation to the rights, in addition to others that the General Assembly may establish: I — withdrawals are not lower than the professional category floor and, in its absence, r calculated proportionally to the hours worked or activities carried out; II — duration of normal work not exceeding eight hours per day and forty-four hours, the activity, by its nature, requires the provision of work through shifts or shifts; III — paid weekly rest, preferably on Sundays; IV — paid annual rest; V — retirement for night work in excess of daytime work; VI — additional on withdrawal for unhealthy activities or dangerous; and VII — work accident insurance. 6. OBJECT The Work Cooperative may adopt as its corporate purpose any type of service provided for in its Bylaws (art. 10 of Law No. 12,690, of 2012). To fulfill its social objectives, the partner may exercise any activity decided at the General Meeting (§ 4 of article 10 of Law no. 12,690, of 2012). 6.1. Object subject to special coordination regarding the place of provision Activities identified with the object of the Work Cooperative, provided for by Law No. 12,690, of 2012, when provided outside the establishment of the cooperative, they must be with a mandate never exceeding one year or the period stipulated for carrying out these activities by members who are available to the area | iza—|as, where the requirements will be set out for the pecuniary remuneration of each partner to participate (§ 6 of article 7 of Law no. 12,690, of 2012). 7. NAME It is mandatory to use the expression "Work Cooperative" in the corporate name of Law No. 12,690, of 2012) 8. ADMISSION OF MEMBERS (§ 3rd art. 10 of Law No. 12,690, of 2012) The admission of members to the work cooperative must observe the following factors I — possibilities of meeting; ll — ahrannénnia ring nneranﬁes rla r*.nnner2ti\/2' 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - II — half plus one of the partners, on second call; and III — fifty partners or, at least, twenty percent of the total number of members, prior to the call, the presence of at least four members is required for the cooperatives that are registered. 9.3. CALL NOTICE (art. 12, of Law 12,690, of 2012) Notification of members to participate in the assemblies will be personal and will occur ten days after they are held. If personal notification is not possible, notification will be given by post, as mentioned in the caput of this article. If it is impossible to make personal and postal notifications, the partners if posted at the headquarters and in other places provided for in the statutes and published in a major newspaper (cooperative or in the region where it carries out its activities, respecting the advance notice provided for in Article 44 of Law No. 5,764 of 1971 They must also inform Cc annually, in the Ordinary General Assembly, about the adoption or not of different withdrawal bands (12,690, 2012). In the case of setting withdrawal bands, the difference between those of the highest and those of the rr Assembly. 10. COUNCIL OF ADMINISTRATION The Board of Directors or Board of Directors will be composed of, at least, three partners for a management period not exceeding four years, with renewal being mandatory, at mir 15 of Law No. 12,690, of 2012). 10.1. EXCEPTIONS TO COMPOSITION The Work Cooperative constituted by up to nineteen members may establish, for the Administrative Body, different from that provided for in Law No. 12,690, of 2012. 11. FISCAL COUNCIL The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised, assiduously and in detail, by three effective members and three substitutes, all associates, elected annually by the Assembly, re-electing only a third of its components. If the Cooperative is established under No. 12,690, of 2012, it authorizes a composition for the Fiscal Council different from that provided for in the provision that at least three fiscal councilors are ensured. SECTION XI SOCIAL COOPERATIVES 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION NO. DE 2020 - VI — teenagers of suitable age for work and a difficult family situation due to affective needs. 3. PROOF OF THE CONDITION OF PERSONS AT A DISADVANTAGE The condition of a person at a disadvantage must be attested through a public administration document, noting the right to privacy (art. 3, § 3, of Law No. 9,867, de 'IE 4. ACTIVITIES Social Cooperatives include among their activities (art. 1 of Law No. 9,867, of 19! I — the organization and management of socio-sanitary and educational; and II — the development of agricultural, industrial, commercial and service activities. 5. SOCIAL BYLAWS The statute of the Social Cooperative may provide for one or more categories of membership services free of charge, and are not included in the definition of disadvantaged people (art. I 6. SOCIAL NAME In the name of Social Cooperatives, it is mandatory to use the expression "Coo; 9,867, 1999). CHAPTER III STANDARDIZED INSTRUMENTS MINUTES OF THE GENERAL CONSTITUTION ASSEMBLY (NAME OF THE COOPERATIVE) On XX days of the month of XX of the year XXXX, at XX:XX hours, in (indicate the Iocali STREET, NUMBER, NEIGHBORHOOD, CEP AND CITY), they met with the purpose of constituting a terms of In current legislation, the following people: name in full, nationality, age, 4 residence (full address, street, number, neighborhood, city and zip code) (QUALIFY ALL THOSE IN THE COOPERATIVE. REMEMBERING THAT TO CONSTITUTE A COOPERATIVE A MONTH TWENTY PEOPLE ARE REQUIRED | CAS — EXCEPTION: WORK COOPERATIVES, WHICH ONLY 7 FOUNDERS were allowed), and the value and number of the subscribed shares of each founder (the Lord (name of the president), secretary, was appointed to preside and coordinate the work, to draw up these Minutes, having also participated at the table in the following people: each participant at the table). The president requested that the previously prepared Project * be presented, explained and debated, which was done article by article. The Statute was approved by vote dc ,_n:,,: A, 12/05/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - according to the case), assuming the direction of the work, definitively declared constituted: Cooperative (name), with headquarters at (COMPLETE ADDRESS), whose purpose is: (adds in the statute). As there was nothing further to be discussed, the President closed the Secretary, I drew up this Minute which, read and found to be in order, contains the signatures of everyone and proves the free will of each person to organize the Cooperative (place to date). (Signatures of the President and Secretary of the Assembly) (Signature of all founding members) BYLAWS OF THE COOPERATIVE NAME OF THE COOPERATIVE TWULOI OF THE INITIAL PROVISIONS CHAPTERN OF THE NAME, HEADQUARTERS, FORUM, DURATION, ACTION AREA AND PR; Art. 1° The Cooperative (SOCIAL NAME / / , in accordance with the Minutes of the General Assembly of Constitution, not simply a Cooperative, society of people, without purposes Profitable, is governed by the main Articles of Incorporation and the current legislation, having: a) headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in (INSEF INCLUDING CEP) in the city of , (UF). b) membership admission area, covering (LISTER AND WILL MAKE UP THE MEMBERSHIP ADMISSION AREA), being able to operate throughout the territory c) indefinite term and fiscal year lasting twelve months ending on December 31st of each year . OR c) period of duration up to and fiscal year with duration DURATION), starting on (INSERT DATE) and ending on (INSEF CHAPTER OF SOCIAL OBJECT Art. 2° The Cooperative, based on the reciprocal collaboration to which its obligations are obliged, is direct provision of services to its members and its social purpose is 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 1° Exceptionally, legal entities that have related activities may join the Cooperative economics of individuals or, even, those for non-profit purposes, not established in these Bylaws. § 2° Trade and economic agents of the society cannot join the Cooperative. § 3° The representation of the legal entity before the Cooperative will be done through a designated means, through a specific instrument that, in cases where there is more than one representative: of each one. Art. 4° The number of associates will be unlimited as to the maximum, and they cannot go Art. 5° To acquire the quality of member, the interested party must have his/her approval for the administration of the Cooperative, subscribe to the quotas—parts in the form provided for in this Statute and other documents necessary for the association to become effective. Single paragraph. Once the provisions of the caput of this article have been complied with, the member acquires: the duties arising from the law, these Bylaws and the deliberations taken by the Assemble CAPWULOH OF RIGHTS Art. 6 The member's rights are: I — to be called to the General Assemblies, to discuss and vote on matters that are necessary: ​​legal and statutory provisions; II — be voted for social positions, as long as the legal provisions are met and III — participate in all activities that constitute the object of the Cooperative; IV — propose measures that it deems convenient in the interests of the Cooperative; V — examine, upon prior formal request, information and documents relating to the administration of the Cooperative; VI — receive a refund of the paid-in capital, interest and surplus, under the terms of this VII — become aware of the Cooperative’s regulations; VIII - resign from the Cooperative when convenient, subject to the provisions applicable to Sole Paragraph. In order to be assessed by the General Assembly, the Statute proposals must be previously presented to the administration body and included in the respective CAPWULOHI DOS DFVFRFS 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ INSTRUCTION NORMATIVE N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - need to identify situations with signs of being related to the Cooperative; and XI — participate in General Assemblies, discuss and vote on matters covered by legal and statutory provisions. CHAPTER IV OF THE HYPOTHESES FOR TERMINATION OF ASSOCIATES SECTIONI OF DISMISSAL Art. 8° The dismissal of the member will take place solely at his/her request and will be formalized in the Registration Book. § 1° The administration body will be notified about demi requests: subsequent to the date of protocol of the requests. § 2° The date of the member's dismissal will be the date of the dismissal request protocol; SECTION II ELIMINATION Art. 9° The elimination of the member, which will be carried out through a term ﬁrmed with the Registration, will be applied due to a legal or statutory infraction, or even when: I — carrying out any activity considered harmful to the Cooperative; II — carry out acts that, at the Cooperative's discretion, discredit it, such as issuing credit to a financial institution, inclusion in credit protection systems, pending issues recorded not constant and relevant in credit operations and operations written off at a loss in Coopere III — failing to honor any commitment to the Cooperative, or having provided any type of guarantee for which it is obliged to honor as a result of ir IV — is disclosing the pre-Cooperative among other members and/or to the community or violating confidentiality of operations or services provided by the Cooperative. V — carry out any activity that conflicts with the Cooperative’s corporate purpose; VI — fails to fulfill the obligations contracted by him in the Cooperative; VII — fail to carry out with the Cooperative the operations that constitute its purpose ( VIII — fail to pay in the capital within the period provided for in this Statute. Art. 10. The elimination of the member will be decided and recorded in minutes of the meeting of the Cooperative (3 05 /12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 2° Exclusion based on item IV will be carried out by decision of the body that determined it, observing the rules for eliminating members. SECTION IV GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 12. In any case of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the member will only be paid in full, the surplus and other credits that have been registered. § 1° The refund referred to in this article can only be demanded after the end of the financial year in which the member was disconnected from the Cooperative. § 2° The Cooperative's management body may determine that it will be refunded in installments, starting from the financial year following the one in which the termination and payment took place. § 3° Acts of dismissal, elimination or exclusion entail the salary and benefit associated with the Cooperative, the liquidation of which will be up to the management body to decide. § 4° In the event of dismissals, eliminations or exclusions of associates in the important names referred to in this article, they may threaten the economic and financial stability of the C Ias through criteria that protect its continuity. CHAPTER V RESPONSIBILITIES Art. 13. The member is responsible for the Cooperative's commitments limited to the amount of the losses that he is responsible for. Single paragraph. The responsibility of the member towards third parties, as a member, can be invoked after being legally required from the Cooperative. OR Art. 13. The member is responsible for all of the Cooperative's commitments, regardless of the value of the capital subscribed by him. Single paragraph. The responsibility of the member towards third parties, as a member, can be invoked after being legally required from the Cooperative. Art. 14. The member's liability to third parties for commitments dismissed, eliminated or excluded until the accounts for the year in which the Sole Paragraph was given are approved. The obligations of deceased members, contracted with the company. responsibility as an associate vis-à-vis third parties, pass on to heirs, prescribing, 1 day from the opening of the succession. except in cases provided for by law. 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 5° The payment of quotas—parts and the increase in share capital may if evaluated and after approval at the General Assembly or by withholding a certain financial movement of each member. § 6 The distribution of any type of benefit to the quotas—parties c advantages or privileges, financial or otherwise, in favor of any associates or third parties. § 7° The cooperative may distribute interest of up to twelve percent per year on the surplus, upon resolution of the General Assembly. § 8 The Cooperative's share capital will be calculated by multiplying the unit value: minimum shares—parts to be subscribed by each member and the minimum number of members Art. 16. The number of shares—parts of the share capital to be subscribed by the association cannot be less than (NUMBER OF SHARES—PARTS TO BE SUBSCRIBED) nor greater than one-third of the total share capital of the Cooperative. Art. 17. The heirs of the deceased member are entitled to the paid-in capital and themselves, ensuring—|their right entry into the Cooperative, as long as they complete the Statutes, upon express request. society, within the limits of the law and these Bylaws. Single paragraph. Decisions taken at the General Assembly are binding on all dissenting parties and will be recorded in the minutes drawn up in the appropriate book or on loose pages. Art. 19. The General Assembly will usually be called and chaired by the President Sole paragraph. The General Assembly may also be called by anyone by the Fiscal Council, or after an unanswered request, by one-fifth of the members in full Art. 20. In In any of the hypotheses referred to in this Statute, the Assemblies must be held at least ten days in advance, with the time deﬁned for the three calls, being among them. Art. 21. The quorum for the General Assembly will be: . I — two thirds of the number of members, on first call; u ,,,;,,:, ,,,-, ,,, 4,, ,____-,,u,, ,,, _,, .,,:, __, .__,,»:,, , 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - IV — a agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications and, if necessary, a precise indication of the matter; V — the number of members existing on the date of its issuance for the purpose of ca|cL VI — the date and signature of the person responsible for the convocation. § 1° If the call is made by members, the notice will be signed, members in full enjoyment of their rights. § 2° The call notices will be posted in visible locations of the associated facilities, published in a circulation newspaper local or regional, and communicated to members Art. 24. It is the responsibility of the General Assemblies, ordinary or extraordinary, administration or supervisory bodies. § 1 In the event of dismissal or loss that may compromise the regularity of the Cooperative, the Assembly may appoint administrators and/or fiscal advisors, including the PC, within a maximum period of thirty days, counting from the vacancy of the position. § 2 During the same period, a General Assembly must be called for him fiscal councilors, as the case may be, whose mandate will be equivalent to the remaining time of the month. Art. 25. The work of the General Assemblies will be directed by the President, assisting Sole Paragraph. When the General Assembly has not been called by the President by an associate chosen at the time, and is served as a secretary by another, invited by the former. Art. 26. The members of the administration and supervisory bodies, as well as any voting on decisions on matters that refer to them, directly or indirectly, among those determining the value of fees, bonuses and attendance cards, but debates will not be private. Art. 27. At the General Assemblies in which the balances of the Cooperative President's accounts are discussed, immediately after reading the Report of the management body, the Fiscal Council will request the plenary to appoint an associate to coordinate the debates and § 1 ° Once the direction of the work was transmitted, the President and other directors of councilors inspectors, will leave the table, remaining in the room, at the disposal of the Assembly as requested. § 2° The appointed coordinator will choose, from among the associates, an ad hoc secretary for decisions to be included in the minutes by the secretary of the General Assembly. Art. 28. The deliberations of the General Assemblies may only concern the following: r Convocation. 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Art. 32. Prescribes within four years the action to annul the deliberations of the Assembly fraud or simulation, or taken in violation of law or these Bylaws, counting from the General deadline has been carried out. SEQAOI OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Art. 33. The Ordinary General Assembly will be held obligatorily once the first few months after the end of the fiscal year, and will deliberate on the following matters, on what day: I - rendering of accounts of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinion of C: a) report of the management; b) balance sheet; c) statement of surpluses or losses resulting from insufficiency and company expenses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board; and d) the Cooperative’s activity plan for the following year; II — allocation of the surpluses determined or the apportionment of losses, deducting, when deducting, obligatory funds; III — election and tenure of members of management bodies and other bodies when applicable; IV — election and possession of the components of the Fiscal and Management Council others, when applicable (V — when provided for, the setting of the value of fees, bonuses and pre-administration certificates and the Fiscal Council; VI — any matters of social interest, excluding those of Extraordinary competence listed in these Bylaws. § 1 ° Members of the administration and supervisory bodies will not be able to participate in those referred to in items I (except subparagraph "d") and V of this article. § 2° The approval of the report, balance sheet and accounts of the administration bodies does not apply. liability for error, fraud, fraud or simulation, as well as for violation of the law or this Stat. SECTION n EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Art. interest of the Cooperative, as long as it is mentioned in the Call Notice. 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Art. 36. The Board of Directors is the competent and responsible for matters of an economic and social nature, of interest to the Cooperative or its members, Social Affairs and the recommendations of the General Assembly. Art. 37. The Board of Directors will be composed of (INSERT |\ President and (INSERT OTHER POSITIONS), all associated in the enjoyment of the General Assembly for a mandate of (INSERT NUMBER - cannot be greater than 4 Law No. 5,764, of 1971) years, with the renewal of components being mandatory at the end of each term. § 1° They cannot do part of the Board of Directors, in addition to the people imposed a penalty that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; or for crimes involving bribery, bribery, embezzlement, or against the popular economy, public faith or property. § 2° Relatives of each other or collateral cannot sit on the same Board of Directors. Art. 38. The members of the Board of Directors will be elected by the Asst automatically when the result is announced by the said Assembly. Art. 39. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I — meets ordinarily once a month, and extraordinarily whenever the President, of the majority of the Board of Directors itself, or even at the request of the Cons the presence of the majority of its members, with decisions being taken by a simple majority of votes of those present, with the President having the vote III reserved — the deliberations will be recorded in detailed minutes drawn up in II signed at the end of the work by the members of the Board of Directors present. Single paragraph. The member of the Board of Directors will automatically lose his position if he misses (INSERT NUMBER) consecutive ordinary meetings or (INSERT year. Art. 40. It is up to the Board of Directors, within the limits of the law and its duties: I — to propose the Assembly General policies and goals for general guidance by presenting work programs and budgets, in addition to suggesting measures to be takes II — schedule operations and services, establishing quality and establishing the charges and other conditions necessary for their implementation; III — evaluate and provide the amount of financial resources and means for operations and services; 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - XIII — evaluate the convenience and set the bond or insurance limit loyalty for money or values ​​of the Cooperative; XIV — fix administration expenses in an annual budget that indicates the source of the XV — hire, when necessary, an independent audit service, c Law No. 5,764, of 1971; XVI — indicate financial institutions in which business will be carried out and deposits that can be kept in the Cooperative's cash register; XVII — establish the standards for controlling operations and services, checking the economic and financial aspects of the Cooperative, as well as the development of operations and whether specific statements; XVIII — establish rules and sanctions for the relationship maintained with other entities XIX — contract obligations, compromise, acquire, dispose of and encumber movable assets, cede rights XXI — ensure compliance with cooperative legislation and other applicable legislation, labor and tax legislation. § 1° The President of the Cooperative will ensure that the other members receive, at least (INSERT NUMBER) days in advance, copies of project balance sheets and other documents on which they have to comment, with the right to correspond, inquire employees or associates, research documents, in order to verify existing ones. § 2° The Board of Directors will request, whenever it deems appropriate, senior employees for assistance in clarifying the matters to be decided, and may present, in advance, projects on specific issues. § 3° The standards established by the Board of Directors will be issued Regulations or Instructions which, as a whole, will constitute Cooper's Internal Regulations; Art. 41. The President is responsible for, among others, the following powers and duties: I — direct and supervise all activities of the Cooperative; II — download the acts of execution of the decisions of the Board of Directors; III — sign, together with another Advisor designated by the Admissions Council, other documents constituent of obligations; I’ IV — convene and preside over meetings of the Board of Directors. as well as As: 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Art. 42. Administrators, whether elected or hired, They will not be personally responsible for contracting in the name of the Cooperative, but will be jointly and severally liable for losses resulting from their actions with guilt, willful misconduct or bad faith. § 1° The Cooperative will be responsible for the acts to which it Refer to this article if you benefit from it. § 2° Those who participate in a social act or operation in which the natu is hidden declared personally responsible for the obligations contracted in its name, without prejudice § 3° 0 member of the Board of Directors who, in any operation, Cooperative, will not be able to participate in the deliberations related to this operation, complying with § 4° The components of the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, as well as the administrators of public limited companies for the purposes of criminal liability. § 5 Without prejudice to any action that may be taken by any member, Coope, represented by a member chosen at the General Assembly, will have the right to take action against those under its responsibility. Art. 43. The Cooperative's Board of Directors may create a Board of Directors E) as a statutory body composed of individuals associated or not, indicated by and Sole Paragraph. The functions of the Executive Administration of social businesses can be contracted, according to the structure established by the Board of Directors. Art. 44. The Board of Directors may create special, temporary committees to coordinate the solution of specific issues relating to the operation of the Cooperative. or SECAOI OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Art. 36. The Board of Directors is the competent body responsible for making decisions on all matters (economic and social) of interest to the Cooperative or its members, in accordance with the I4 recommendations of the General Assembly. Art. 37. The Board of Directors will be composed of (INSERT NUMBER) and (INSERT OTHER POSITIONS), all associated in the enjoyment of their General rights for a term of (INSERT NUMBER - cannot be longer than four to 5,764, 1971) years, being mandatory, at the end of each term , the renewal of, I components. r § 1° In addition to those prevented by law, ninrln I-4|Ir\ 1-n.~.nA-nu-innanni-A f\ 4-\r\r\r\ cannot be part of the Board of Directors. r\r\ 4-\ Anrruan r\I'Il'\I:f\f\r\' an r\r\y- nu-Inna +'nl:.~.nnl-n- An r\rr\ \Ir\y-:r\r\r\: 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - I — propose to the General Assembly the policies and goals for general guidance d presenting work and budget programs, in addition to suggesting the measures to be taken: II — programming operations and services, establishing quality and setting out the charges and other conditions necessary for their implementation; III — evaluate and provide the amount of financial resources and means n4 operations and services; IV — previously estimate the profitability of operations and services, as well as their V V — establish the standards for the Cooperative’s operation; VI — prepare, together with leaders of the membership, internal regulations for any existing ones; VII — establish sanctions or penalties to be applied in cases of violation of the provisions of law, these Bylaws, or the rules of relationship with the entity that sees VIII — decide on admission, elimination and exclusion of associates and their implications IX — decide on the convening of the General Assembly and establish the agenda for its convocation, considering the proposals of the associates, under the terms of these Bylaws; X — establish the operational structure of the executive management of the business, cri; and setting standards for the admission and dismissal of employees; XI — establish disciplinary standards; XII — judge appeals made by employees against disciplinary decisions; XIII — evaluate the convenience and establish the limit of bail or loyalty insurance for money or values ​​of the Cooperative; XIV — fix administration expenses in an annual budget that indicates the source of the XV — hire, when necessary, an independent audit service, cc Law No. 5,764, of 1971; XVI — indicate financial institutions in which business will be carried out and deposits that can be kept in the Cooperative's cash register; XVII — establish standards for controlling operations and services, checking the economic and financial aspects of the Cooperative, as well as the development of operations and specific statements; XVIII — establish rules and sanctions for the relationship maintained with other entities XIX — contract obligations, compromise, acquire, sell and encumber movable assets, assign rights JUNE 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - II — download the acts of execution of the Board’s decisions; III — sign, together with another officer designated by the Board, checks (constituting obligations; IV — call and preside over Board meetings, as well as General Assemblies; V — present monthly balance sheets and balance sheets to the Board and Fiscal Council for 2 VI — present to the Ordinary General Assembly: a) Management report; b) General balance sheet; c) statement of surpluses determined or losses recorded during the year; and d) opinion of the Supervisory Board; VII — represent actively and passively the Cooperative, in court and out of court; VIII — prepare the cooperative’s annual activity plan; IX — periodically check the Cooperative’s financial flow; X - Provide verbal or written information to the Board and the Fiscal Council: Cooperative, allowing the IVRE Examination of the IIVros and Documents; and XI – be responsible for the values ​​and titles of any nature belonging to Ct Art. contracted in the name of the Cooperative, but will be jointly and severally liable for the losses resulting from their actions with guilt, intent or bad faith. § 1° The Cooperative will be responsible for the acts referred to in this article, if it benefits them. § 2° Those who participate in a social act or operation in which the natu is hidden declared personally responsible for the obligations contracted in its name, without prejudice § 3° The member of the Board of Directors who, in any operation, has an opposing interest participate in the deliberations related to this operation, complying with — |he declare his impediment § 4° The components of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board, as well as the liquidators, and the limited companies for the purpose of criminal liability. § 5 Without prejudice to any action that may be taken by any member, Coope, represented by a member chosen at the General Assembly, will have the right to take action against those responsible for it. 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 2° In addition to the ineligible enumerated members of the management body, up to the second degree, straight or collateral, as well as degree, they cannot be part of the Supervisory Board. § 3 The member cannot cumulatively hold positions in the administrative bodies. Art. 46. The Fiscal Council meets, ordinarily, once a month and, if necessary, with the participation of three of its members. § 1° In its first meeting it will choose, among its effective members, a Coorc meetings and directing its work, and a secretary for taking minutes. § 2 Meetings of the Fiscal Council may also be called by any of the management bodies or the General Assembly. § 3° In the absence of the Coordinator, a replacement will be chosen, on that occasion, to lead § 4° The deliberations will be taken by a simple majority of votes and will be approved and signed at the end of the work of each meeting, by three members of the Council Tax Art. 47. The member of the Fiscal Council that, for justifiable reasons, cannot communicate the fact to the Coordinator, at least (INSERT NUMBER) I“ in advance of the respective alternate. § 1° Communication must be waived when the substitute duly attends the meeting. § 2° When communication does not occur in accordance with the caput of this article, the Cor (INSERT NUMBER) days, counting from the date on which his/her absence was registered, to: in a meeting, or in the interested party's office hours to the Coordinator of the Fiscal Council. § 3° The Fiscal Councilor who is absent will not be entitled to receive the General Meeting, even if the absence is justified. Art. 48. A member who unjustifiably misses consecutive ordinary meetings or (INSERT NUMBER) meetings during the year will lose their mandate. Art. 49. In the event of vacancy of the position of effective member of the Fiscal Council, the position of the holder automatically takes over. Art. 50. In the event of three or more vacancies on the Fiscal Council, there must be administration of the Cooperative, for the arrangements for calling a General Assembly p. vacancies. Art. 51. The Fiscal Council is responsible for exercising assiduous supervision over the operations: r Cooperative, examining books, accounts and documents, among others, the following: 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - cooperativism; XI - ascertain whether the stocks of materials, equipment and others are correct periodic or annual are made with observance of the own rules; XII — examine the balance sheets and other monthly statements, the balance sheet and administration, issuing an opinion on these to the General Assembly; XIII — inform the management body of the conclusions of its work and inform the General Assembly of the irregularities found, calling a General Assembly, if applicable (XIV — convene a General Assembly when there are serious reasons and the administrative body XV — propose the establishment of routines and deadlines for presenting financial statements and rendering of accounts; XVI — recommend to the Cooperative's management body the improvement and performance in the accounting, financial and budgetary sectors; XVII — prepare its Internal Regulations, if its members deem it necessary; XVIII — check whether the cooperative establishes financial privileges for third-party holders; It is XVIV — check whether members are regularizing the agreed commitments; § 1° To carry out its functions, the Fiscal Council will have access to any employees, associates and others, regardless of prior authorization from the management body. § 2° The Fiscal Council may, with authorization from the General Assembly, hire specialized technicians, expenses incurred by the Cooperative. TITLE v GENERAL BALANCE SHEET, EXPENSES, SUBSTANCES, LOSSES AND FUNDS Art. 52. The calculation of the results of the fiscal year and the survey of the ba|an(_ (INSERT DATE) for each year. Art. 53. The results will be determined according to the nature of the operations and respective revenues with direct and indirect expenses. § 1° Expenses Administrative expenses will be apportioned in proportion to the operations, only computed in the calculations referred to in this article. 2020 - I — the credits not claimed by members after five years; and II — aid and donations without special allocation. Art. 55. The Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund — FATES is intended for: members and their families, as well as employees of the Cooperative itself, including public and private entities. Single paragraph. Any income from operations or activities of the Cooperative with non-members also reverts to FATES, as per art. 87 of Law No. 5,764, t Art. 56. The Reserve and Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Funds are subject to TITLE VI DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION Art. 57. The Cooperative will be dissolved by operation of law: I — when the General Assembly so decides, provided that the members, total|izand( are willing to ensure the continuity of the Cooperative; II — due to the change in its legal form; III — by reducing the number of members to less than twenty natural persons or (at least, if by the General Assembly subsequent, carried out within a period of no less than six are reestablished; IV — for the suspension of its activities for more than one hundred and twenty days. Art. 58. When the dissolution is decided by the General Assembly, it will appoint a Fiscal Council composed of three members to carry out the liquidation. § 1° The General Assembly, within the limits of its powers, may, at any time, members of the Fiscal Council, designating their substitutes; § 2° The liquidator must carry out the liquidation in accordance with with the provisions (force. § 3° the remainder of the Cooperative, including indivisible funds, after liability and reimbursement to members of their quotas—parts, will be allocated in accordance with legislation Art. 59. When the dissolution of the Cooperative is not promoted voluntarily Statute , this measure may be taken judicially, at the request of any member. General deg' 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - SIGNATURE OF THE MEMBER MEMBER RULE (art. 36, Decree No. 1,800, of 96) Viewed: (OAB/UF XXXX) OPTIONAL STANDARDIZED CLAUSES FOR BRANCHES (ART. 1,000 OF THE CC) Art. XX. Without prejudice to the possibility of opening or closing a branch, or any dependent carried out the activity(ies) of (Precise and detailed description of the cooperative objective in part or in full). § 2° In an establishment elected as a Branch located in (Logradouro), (Number), 1 which the activity(ies) of (Precise and detailed description of the corporate purpose, will be carried out, 0 partially or completely). * If there is more than one branch, repeat the wording of the second paragraph for each of THE SOCIAL OBJECTIVES Art. XX. To achieve its social objectives, the Cooperative, to the extent of a) promoting the dissemination of the cooperative doctrine and its principles within the Cooperative framework; b) promote social and educational assistance to members and their families Technical Educational and Social Assistance (FATES), provided for in item II, art. 28 of Law 5,764, of 0) provide, with FATES resources, agreements with entities specializing in technical improvement—professional | and cooperative training of its members; d) sign contracts and mediate credit and financing operations of interest d e) manage, efficiently, the resources obtained from its members for maintenance f) guarantee the operation and maintenance of its own facilities and assets or d g) contract or intermediate, for the benefit of interested members, private pension insurance, health care and work accident insurance; h) contract, for the benefit of interested members, and in the development of c cooperatives or companies linked to consumption in general; and i) hire, in order to achieve its social objectives, legal, medical services Art. XX. In the Registration Book, members will be registered in chronological order: a) the name, age, marital status, nationality, profession and residence of the member; b) the date of their admission, and, where applicable, of their dismissal, elimination or expulsion c) the current account of the respective quotas—parts of the share capital. FRAMEWORK (ME OR EPP) (CONSUMER COOPERATIVE) Art. XX. The members declare that the consumer cooperative falls under Complementary Law No. 123, of December 14, 2006, and that it does not fall under any of the provisions listed in § 4 of art. 3 of the aforementioned law. (Article 3, I, of Complementary Law No. 123, of 20 (OR Art. December 2006, and which does not fall within the exclusion listed in § 4 of art. 3 of the aforementioned law. (art. 3, II, of the Complementary Law Art. the associated acts 4 fall within any of the exclusion hypotheses listed in § 4 of article 3 of the aforementioned SOCIAL BYLAWS OF THE WORK COOPERATIVE NAME OF THE WORK COOPERATIVE TITLE I INITIAL PROVISIONS CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, FORUM, DURATION, ACTION AREA AND PR. Art. 1° The Work Cooperative (named only / / , in accordance with the Minutes of the General Constitutional Assembly (date of As in these Bylaws referred to simply as Cooperative, society of people, will be the principles and values ​​of cooperativism, by this Bylaw Social and by current legislation, having: a) headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in (INSEF INCLUSIVE CEP) in the city of ,_ (UF); b) area of ​​admission of partners, covering, being able to act er i c) indefinite term and social exercise lasting twelve months ending in 31 rle r'le7emhrn rle Carla ann 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81 , OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Art. 2° The Cooperative, based on reciprocal collaboration to which they are obliged only to provide direct services to members and its corporate purpose is to service provision (insert economic activity(ies) and respective Economic Activities code — CNAE). § 1° The provision of specialized services to third parties will be carried out without requiring employment. § 2° In all aspects of the activities carried out in the Cooperative, the principles of political neutrality and non-religious, racial, social or gender discrimination must be adhered to. Art. 3 When provided outside the Cooperative establishment, coordination activities carried out by a member, with a mandate never exceeding one year or to the term stipn activities. § 1° The election of the coordinator will be carried out among the partners who are willing to undergo a specific review that will deal with the requirements for its achievement, the contracted values ​​and the retri participates. § 2° The activities, tasks, duties and responsibilities of the Coordinator may Resolutions, Regulations or Instructions which, as a whole, will constitute the Internal Regulations TITLE No. OF MEMBERS CHAPTER I ADMISSION CONDITIONS Art. 4° They may join Cooperative (insert the persons involved in labor or professional activity, as determined by article 2 of Law No. 12,690, of 2012), is social and fulfills the conditions established in this Statute, unless services by the Cooperative are impossible. § 1° The admission of members to the cooperative is limited depending on the possibility of operations, control and provision of services and congruent with the purpose of these Bylaws. § 2° Legal entities that have related economic activities of individuals or even non-profit activities, as set out in these Bylaws. § 3° Trade and economic agents of the society cannot join the Cooperative. r § 4° The representation of the legal entity before the Cooperative will be done through 4 rJr\r\:rur\r\rJr\ nandinnl-A :r\r\I>rIIrv|r\r\I*r\ nnnnnlﬁnn I -4|Ir\ nan Amman f\rV| I-4|Ir\ l‘\f\IIIlf\l' rvut-\:r\ An nrv. I-r\r\rr\l 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - IV — annual paid rest; V — retirement for night work in excess of daytime work; VI — additional on withdrawal from unhealthy or dangerous activities; VII — work accident insurance; VIII — be summoned to General Assemblies, discuss and vote on matters that do not comply with legal and statutory provisions; IX — be voted for social positions, as long as legal and legal provisions are met. r , interest and surplus, under the terms of this Esl XIV — become aware of the Cooperative's regulations; applies § 1° In the absence of the professional category floor or the regional salary floor, it will be c § 2° The duration of the partners' work must comply with the provisions of the work standards. § 3° The General Assembly may provide for special working hours, on duty for the activity, due to its nature, as required, with time compensation provided. § 4° The provisions of paragraph 3° of this article do not prejudice the application of work region, when provided for in a specific standard. § 5° The Cooperative must establish, in the General Assembly, the operating rules and execution of work. § 6° In order to be assessed by the General Assembly, the proposals of the article partners must be previously presented to the management body and appear in the respective: Art. 8° The provisions of items III and IV of the caput of this article do not apply in if the partner and the cooperative are occasional, unless the meeting decides otherwise (§ 1 of the Work Cooperatives Act) Sole Paragraph. Operations are considered between the partner and the Cooperative in an occasional and discontinued manner, in accordance with parameters deﬁned in the General Assembly. 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - VI — comply with the provisions of the law and these Bylaws, the deliberations of the administration, the Executive Board (only use if the Cooperative has a Board standardization instruments intended directly or indirectly for partners; VII — ensure the moral, ethical, social and material interests of the Cooperative; VIII — provide, when requested, clarifications about its activities to Coopera IX — keep its registration information updated with the Cooperative; X — communicate, without the need to identify, situations that may be related to the Cooperative; XI — observe the occupational health and safety standards provided for in legislation issued by the competent authorities; and XII — participate of the General Assemblies, discuss and vote on matters covered by legal and statutory provisions. CHAPTER IV OF THE HYPOTHESES FOR TERMINATION OF MEMBER SECTIONI OF DISMISSAL Art. 11. The dismissal of the partner will be done solely at his/her request and will be formalized as part of his/her registration. § 1° The administration body will be notified about demi requests: subsequent to the date of protocol of the requests. § 2° The date of the partner's dismissal will be the date of the dismissal request protocol in SECTION II OF ELIMINATION Art. 12. The elimination of the member, which will be carried out through a term signed by the person who will be applied due to a legal or statutory infraction, or when: I — carrying out any activity considered harmful to the Cooperative; II — carry out acts that, at the discretion of the Cooperative, discredit it, such as issuance of credit to the financial institution, inclusion in credit protection systems, pending issues recorded that are not constant and relevant in credit operations and operations written off at a loss in the Coopera I III — fail to honor any commitment to the Cooperative, or to third parties 41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - EXCLUSION Art. 14. The exclusion of the partner will be carried out in the following cases: I — dissolution of the legal entity; II — death of the individual; III — non-civil incapacity supplied; or IV - fails to meet the statutory requirements for entry or permanence in the Coc § 1° The exclusion of the partner will be formalized through a term ﬁrmed in the Registration Book § 2° The exclusion based on item IV will be effected by decision of the body that the determined, observing the rules for eliminating partners. SECTION IV GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 15. In any case of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the member will only be paid the surplus and other credits that he/she has have been registered. § 1° The refund referred to in this article can only be demanded after the end of the financial year in which the member was dismissed from the Cooperative. § 2° The Cooperative's management body may determine that it will be refunded in installments, starting from the financial year following the one in which the termination and payment took place. § 3° Acts of dismissal, elimination or exclusion entail the due date for the partner with the Cooperative, upon whose Liquidation will be up to the administration body to decide. § 4° In the event of dismissals, eliminations or exclusions of members in such a number that referred to in this article may threaten the economic-financial stability of the Cooperative, and criteria that safeguard its continuity. CHAPTER V RESPONSIBILITIES Art. 16. The partner is responsible for the Cooperative's commitments up to the amount of the losses he is responsible for. Single paragraph. The responsibility of the partner towards third parties, as a member invoked after being legally required from the Cooperative. r OR 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 2° The share is indivisible, non-transferable to non-partners , which cannot be negotiated as a guarantee, and its entire movement of subscription, payment, transfer and refund 5 of Registration. § 3° The transfer of shares—parts between partners, total or partial, will be written in a term containing the signatures of the transferor, the transferee and the director that the Statute of § 4° the partner must pay the quotas—parts in cash or in periodic installments to establish the number and due date for payment of the installments. § 5 The payment of quotas—parts and the increase in share capital may be evaluated after approval at the General Assembly or by withholding a certain financial movement of each partner. § 6° The cooperative may distribute interest of up to twelve percent per year on the surplus, upon resolution of the General Assembly. § 7 The distribution of any type of benefit to shares—shares and advantages or privileges, financial or otherwise, in favor of any partners or third parties is prohibited. § 8 The Cooperative's share capital will be calculated by multiplying the unit value: minimum shares—parts to be subscribed by each member and the minimum number of members Art. 19. The number of shares—parts of the share capital to be subscribed by the partner, can you be less than (number of shares—parts to be subscribed by extension: one-third of the total share capital of the Cooperative. Art. 20. The heirs of the deceased member are entitled to the paid-in capital and the remaining shares—|they have the right to join in the Cooperative, as long as they fulfill the conditions and upon express request. Art. 21. The Cooperative is prohibited from distributing funds of any nature among the members for the reason of exercising their activity as a member or remuneration on account of reimbursement carried out for the benefit of the Cooperative. TITLE IV SOCIAL BODIES CHAPTER I GENERAL ASSEMBLY Art. 22. The General Assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative, responsible for the interests of society, within the limits of the law and these Bylaws. Single paragraph. Decisions taken at the General Assembly are binding on all 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 2° Verified existence quorum in time established in the Notice of Invitation to the Assembly, with the declaration of the number of members present, and will have this data transcribed; Art. 26. If there is no quorum for the General Assembly to be held, a new minimum of ten days will be established. Art. 27. The notices calling for General Assemblies must include: I — the name of the Cooperative and the National Register of Persons number, expression "Convocation of the Ordinary, Extraordinary or Special General Assembly", as per c II — 0 day and the time of the meeting, in each call, as well as the place of its justification, will be the registered office; III — the ordinal sequence of calls; IV — the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications and, in the case of a precise indication of the matter; V — the number of members existing on the date of its issuance for the purposes of calculating VI — the date and signature of the person responsible for the call. § 1° If the call is made by partners, the notice will be signed, in full compliance of your rights. Art. 28. Notification of members to participate in the meetings will be personal at least ten days after they are held, with a declaration of awareness from the partner, duly dated § 1° If personal notification is not possible, notification will be made via post AR , respecting the advance provided for in the caput of this article. § 2° If it is impossible to carry out the previous notifications, the members, only posted at the headquarters and (use only if the Cooperative wishes to insert power be posted) and published in a newspaper with wide circulation in the region where the cooperative is headquartered and its activities, respecting the advance notice set out in the caput of this article. Art. 29. It is the responsibility of the General Assemblies, whether ordinary or extraordinary, administration or supervision bodies. § 1° In the event of dismissal or resignation that may compromise the regularity of the Cooperative, the Assembly may appoint administrators and/or fiscal advisors, until the PC has carried out this within a maximum period of thirty days, counting from the vacancy of the position. § 2 During the same period, a General Assembly must be called for the fiscal councilors, as applicable, whose term of office will be equivalent to the remaining time of the month. Art. 30. The work of the General Assemblies will be announced by the President. auxi|ia« 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION NO. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION NO. Matters not expressly included in the Convict Notice the limitations of this article can only be discussed after the order of the matter has been exhausted and is considered the subject of a decision, it will necessarily be a matter for a new Assembly Art. 34. What happens at the General Assembly must be included in detailed minutes, I; and signed at the end of the work. Art. 35. Deliberations at General Assemblies will be considered valid when an absolute majority of the members present, with each member having the right to a single vote, whatever parties. § 1° As a rule, voting will be in the open, but the General Assembly may choose to do so. § 2° Representation by a partner, through an agent, will not be permitted. Art. 36. Members who: I — have been admitted after their convocation are prevented from voting and being voted on at General Assemblies; II - is or has become an employee of the Cooperative, while this period continues until the General Meeting of the accounts for the fiscal year in which the contract of Art. 37 was terminated. The Cooperative shall establish incentives for effective participation of asses and possible sanctions in case of unjustified absences. Art. 38. Prescribes in four years the action to annul the deliberations of the Assemblage fraud or simulation, or taken in violation of law or these Bylaws, counting from the General term has been carried out. SEQAOI OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Art. 39. The Ordinary General Assembly will be held obligatorily within the first few months after the end of the fiscal year, and will deliberate on the following matters, on which day: I - rendering of accounts of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinion of the C: a) management report; b) balance sheet; c) statement of surpluses or losses resulting from insufficiency and company expenses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board; and d) the Cooperative’s activity plan for the following year; II — allocation of the surpluses determined or the apportionment of losses, deducting, at the beginning of 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 3° In the case of setting withdrawal bands, the General Assembly must set the lowest value. SEQAOH EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Art. 40. The Extraordinary General Assembly will be held whenever necessary, for: a matter of interest to the Cooperative, as long as it is mentioned in the Call Notice. Art. 41. It is the exclusive competence of the Extraordinary General Assembly to deliberate on a) reform of the Statute; b) fusion, incorporation or dismemberment; c) change in the company’s purpose; d) voluntary dissolution of the company and appointment of liquidators; e) Liquidator's accounts; and f) lack of enjoyment of withdrawal rights and pre-Social work accident insurance (exclusive use of work cooperatives for the production of goods provided for in section I 2012). Sole paragraph. The votes of two-thirds of the members are required before the deliberations referred to in this article. SEQATION ||| GENERAL MEETING SPECIAL Art. 42. An Assembly will be held in the second half of every year, at least, among others specified in the call notice, on the following subjects: |— management of the cooperative; II — discipline, rights and duties of partners; III — planning and economic results of projects; IV — signed contracts; and V — work organization. CHAPTER II OF SEQAOI ADMINISTRATION 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION NO. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION NO. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 1° They cannot be part of the Board of Directors, in addition to people imposed a penalty that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; or for crimes involving bribery, bribery, embezzlement, or against the popular economy, public faith or property. § 2° Relatives of each other or collateral cannot sit on the same Board of Directors. Art. 45. The members of the Board of Directors will be elected by the Asst automatically when the result by the aforementioned Assembly. Art. 46. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I — meets ordinarily once a month, and extraordinarily whenever President, of the majority of the Board of Directors itself, or, even, at the request of the Board II — deliberates validly with the presence of the majority of its members, with decisions being taken by a simple majority of votes of those present, with the vote reserved for the President III — the deliberations will be recorded in detailed minutes drawn up in II signed at the end of the work by the members of the Board of Directors present. Single paragraph. The member of the Board of Directors will automatically lose his position if he misses (insert number) consecutive ordinary meetings or (insert number) r« Art. 47. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, within the limits of the law and its dutiesz I — to propose the General Assembly the policies and goals for general guidance presenting work programs and budget, in addition to suggesting the measures to be taken II — program the operations and services, establishing quality and establishing the charges and other conditions necessary for their implementation; III — evaluate and provide the amount of financial resources and means for operations and services; IV — estimate in advance the profitability of operations and services, as well as their V V — establish the standards for the operation of the Cooperative; VI — prepare together with board leaders social internal regulations for any existing; VII — establish sanctions or penalties to be applied in cases of violation of the provisions of law, these Bylaws, or the rules of relationship with the entity you see, VIII — decide on the admission, elimination and exclusion of members and their implications |\I 4,:-u,,,,,,,u,,, , __, .__,,»:, J, n__,,,u,u,-, n,,,u , ,_; ,u,,u,,,, , _,,u,,, J, ,u- 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUQATION N” 81, DE JUNE 10, 2020 - XVII — establish the standards for controlling operations and services, verifying the economic and financial aspects of the Cooperative, as well as the development of operations and specific statements; XVIII — establish rules and sanctions for the relationship maintained with other entities XIX — contract obligations, compromise, acquire, dispose of and encumber movable assets, cede rights XXI — ensure compliance with cooperative legislation and other applicable legislation, labor and tax legislation. § 1° The President of the Cooperative will ensure that the other members receive, at least (insert number) days in advance, copies of the balance projects and other documents on which they have to comment, with the correspondent having the right to inquire about employees or partners, research documents in order to resolve disputes2 § 2° 0 Board of Directors It will request, whenever it deems appropriate, senior officials for assistance in clarifying the matters to be decided, and may present, in advance, projects on specific issues. § 3° The standards established by the Board of Directors will be issued Regulations or Instructions which, as a whole, will constitute Cooper's Internal Regulations; Art. 48. The President is responsible for, among others, the following powers and duties: I — direct and supervise all activities of the Cooperative; II — download the acts of execution of the decisions of the Board of Directors; III — sign, together with another Advisor designated by the Admissions Council, other documents constituting obligations; IV — convene and preside over meetings of the Board of Directors, as well as As: V — present the monthly balance sheets and balance sheets to the Board of Directors and C: VI — present the Ordinary General Assembly: a) management report; b) general balance; c) statement of Remains determined or Losses verified in the year; and d) opinion of the Supervisory Board. \/ll — renresenfar afiva (3. nassivamenfe 2 Cnnnerafiva in iuI'7n (3. fnra dale' 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUQO N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUQA N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - § 4° The components of the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, as well as the administrators of public limited companies for the purpose of criminal liability. § 5° Without prejudice to the action that may It is up to any member, Coope represented by a partner, chosen at the General Assembly, will have the right to take action against the administrative responsibility. Art. 50. The Cooperative's Board of Directors may create a Board of Directors E) as a statutory body composed of individuals associated or not, indicated by and Sole Paragraph. The functions of the Executive Administration of social businesses can be contracted, according to the structure established by the Board of Directors. Art. 51. The Board of Directors may create special, temporary committees to coordinate the solution of specific issues relating to the operation of the Cooperative. or SECAOI OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Art. 43. The Board of Directors is the highest body in the administrative hierarchy, with its decision on any and all matters of an economic and social nature, of interest to the Coop in accordance with the law, these Bylaws and the recommendations of the Assembly General. Art. 44. The Board of Directors will be composed of at least three associates, with one Presic being the other positions), all partners, in enjoyment of their social rights, elected by the Ge Assembly (insert number — cannot be longer than four years, according to art. 47 of Law no. 5,764, of 1! end of each mandate, the renewal of at least one third of its components. OR Art. 44. The Board of Directors will be composed of (insert number) members, with one (insert other positions), all partners, in enjoyment of their social rights, elected by Assei (insert number — cannot be longer than four years, according to art. 47 of Law I is mandatory, at the end of each term, the renewal of at least one third of its members. The Cooperative is constituted by up to nineteen members. Law No. 12,690 of 2012 authorizes a CC as provided for in the Law itself). § 1° In addition to those prevented by law, access to public positions cannot be part of the Board of Directors; or for a crime of bankruptcy, embezzlement, or against the popular economy, public faith or the property. § 2° Relatives up to the second degree cannot be part of the same Board, er A»-+ /1: f'\n rvur\rv:l¢\y-r\r\ An n:ff\+f\f: l\ nay-5-In r\Ir\H>r\r\ r\r\Ir\ Annnnaklnin (En.-nl I-Ananndn r\r\r 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - II — schedule operations and services, establishing quality and setting charges and other conditions necessary for their implementation; III — evaluate and provide the amount of financial resources and means for operations and services; IV — estimate in advance the profitability of operations and services, as well as their V V — establish the standards for the operation of the Cooperative; VI — prepare, together with members of the membership, internal regulations for any existing ones; VII — establish sanctions or penalties to be applied in cases of violation of legal provisions, these Bylaws, or the rules of relationship with the entity that v VIII — deliberate on the admission, elimination and exclusion of members and their implications X — establish the operational structure of the executive management of the business, cri; and setting standards for the admission and dismissal of employees; XI — establish disciplinary standards; XII — judge the appeals made by employees against disciplinary decisions; XIII — evaluate the convenience and establish the limit of bail or fidelity insurance for money or values ​​of the Cooperative; XIV — fix administration expenses in an annual budget that indicates the source of the XV — hire, when necessary, an independent audit service, c Law No. 5,764, of 1971; XVI — indicate financial institutions in which business will be carried out and deposits that can be kept in the Cooperative's cash register; XVII — establish the control standards for operations and services, checking the economic and financial aspects of the Cooperative, as well as the development of operations and specific statements; XVIII — establish rules and sanctions for the relationship maintained with other entities XIX — contract obligations, compromise, acquire, dispose of and encumber movable assets, assign rights and 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - III — sign, together with another officer designated by the Board, checks (constituting obligations; IV — call and preside over Board meetings, as well such as the General Assemblies; V — present the monthly balance sheets and balance sheets to the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council for 2 VI — present the Ordinary General Assembly: a) management report; b) general balance sheet; c) statement of the Surplus calculated or the Losses incurred during the year; and d) opinion of the Supervisory Board. VII — actively and passively represent the Cooperative, in court and out of court; VIII — prepare the cooperative’s annual activity plan; IX — periodically check the Cooperative’s financial flow; X - provide verbal or written information to the Board and the Fiscal Council: Cooperative, allowing the free examination of books and documents; and XI - be responsible for values ​​and securities of any nature belonging to Ct Art. 49. The directors, whether elected or hired, will not be personally liable for contracts in the name of the Cooperative, but will be jointly and severally liable for losses resulting from their actions with guilt, willful misconduct or bad faith. § 1° The Cooperative will be responsible for the acts referred to in this article, if it benefits them. § 2° Those who participate in an act or social operation in which the natu is hidden declared personally responsible for the obligations contracted in its name, without prejudice § 3° The member of the Board of Directors who, in any operation, has an opposing interest in participating in the deliberations related to that operation, fulfilling —|he declares his impediment. § 5° Without prejudice to the action that may be held by any member, the Cooperative, by a member chosen at the General Assembly, will have the right of action against the administrators, for p Art. 50. The Board of Directors of the Cooperative may create a Board of Directors E) I as a statutory body composed of individuals associated or not, indicated by and 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, JUNE 10, 2020 - § 1° To compete for the position of fiscal councilor, the partner must be in full compliance with legal and statutory requirements. § 2° In addition to the ineligible members of the management body, members of the management body cannot be part of the Fiscal Council. up to the second degree, in a straight or collateral line, as well as in degree. § 3 The partner cannot hold positions in the management bodies cumulatively. Art. 53. The Fiscal Council meets, ordinarily, once a month and, if necessary, with the participation of three of its members. § 1° At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a Coorc for meetings and to direct its work, and a secretary for taking minutes. § 2 The meetings of the Fiscal Council may be also called by any of the management bodies or the General Assembly. § 3° In the absence of the Coordinator, a replacement will be chosen, on that occasion, to lead § 4° The deliberations will be taken by a simple majority of votes and will be approved and signed at the end of the work of each meeting, by three members of the Council Fiscal Art. 54. The member of the Fiscal Council who, for justifiable reasons, is unable to communicate the fact to the Coordinator, at least in advance (insert number) time: respective alternate. § 1° Communication must be waived when the substitute duly attends the meeting. § 2° When communication does not occur in accordance with the caput of this article, the Cor (insert number) days, counting from the date on which his/her absence was registered, to attend the meeting, or in the interested party's office hours, to the Coordinator of the Fiscal Council. § 3° The Fiscal Councilor who is absent will not be entitled to receive a General Meeting, even if the absence is justified. Art. 55. A member who is unjustifiably absent from (insert number of) meetings during the year will lose his mandate. Art. 56. In the event of vacancy as an effective member of the Fiscal Council, the position of holder. Art. 57. In the event of three or more vacancies on the Fiscal Council, the Cooperative's administration must take action to call a General Assembly for vacancies. 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION No. 81, 10 DE JUNE 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - IX — find out if there are problems with employees; X - to make sure if there are requirements or duties to meet the tax authorities, including, as to the entities of cooperativism; XI - ascertain whether the stocks of materials, equipment and others are correct periodic or annual are made with observance of the own rules; XII — examine the balance sheets and other monthly statements, the balance sheet and administration, issuing an opinion on these to the General Assembly; XIII — inform the administration body of the conclusions of its work and the irregularities found, calling a General Assembly, if applicable (XIV — call a General Assembly when there are serious reasons and the administration body XV — propose the establishment of routines and deadlines for presenting financial balance sheets and reporting; XVI — recommend to the Cooperative's management body the improvement and performance in the accounting, ﬁnancial and budgetary sectors; XVII — prepare its Internal Regulations, if its members deem it necessary; XVIII — check whether the cooperative establishes financial privileges for third-party holders; XIX — check whether members are regularizing the agreed commitments; § 1 To carry out its functions, the Fiscal Council will have access to any employees, associates, and others, regardless of prior authorization from the governing body. administration § 2° The Fiscal Council may, with the consent of the administration body and with the necessary specialized technical advice, be responsible for the expenses. of the results of the fiscal year and the survey of the ba|an(_ (insert date) of each year. Art. 60. The results will be determined according to the nature of the operations and respective revenues with direct and indirect expenses. § 1° The Administrative expenses will be apportioned in proportion to the operations, only computed in the calculations referred to in this article. 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Art. 61. The Reserve Fund is intended to repair the losses of the exercise and even activities, reverting in their favor, in addition to the amount of ten percent of the surplus: I — credits not claimed by members, after five years; II — aid and donations without special allocation. Art. 62. The Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund — FATES is intended for: members and their families, as well as employees of the Cooperative itself, including public and private entities. Single paragraph. Any income from operations or activities of the Cooperative with non-members also reverts to FATES, as per art. 87 of Le Art. 63. The Reserve and Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Funds are TITLE VI DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION Art. 64. The Cooperative will be dissolved by operation of law: I — when the General Assembly so decides, provided that the members, in total, are willing to ensure the continuity of the Cooperative; II — due to the change in its legal form; III — by reducing the number of members to less than seven individuals or the minimum capital, if by the subsequent General Assembly, held within a period of no less than six months: reestablished; and IV — for the strike of its activities for more than one hundred and twenty days. Art. 65. When the dissolution is decided by the General Assembly, it will appoint a Fiscal Council composed of three members to carry out the liquidation. § 1° The General Assembly, within the limits of its powers, may, at any time, members of the Fiscal Council, designating their substitutes; § 2° the liquidator must carry out the liquidation in accordance with the provisions (force. § 3° 0 remainder of the Cooperative, including the funds indivisible, after liability and reimbursement to members of their shares, will be allocated in accordance with current legislation Art. 66. When the dissolution of the Cooperative is not voluntarily promoted by Statute, this measure may be taken judicially, at the request of any member. TITLE vn I' 05/12/2022 07:41 NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 - Art. 70. The Cooperative may act as a procedural substitute for the associates, in < that are related to market operations that appear as the company's purpose, with express authorization expressed individually by the shareholder or by the General Assembly that takes legal action, in accordance with art. 88—A of Law No. 5,764, of 1971. PLACE — MUN|ClP|O AND DATE MEMBER'S FULL NAME MEMBER'S SIGNATURE ASSOCIATE'S RULE (art. 36, Decree No. 1,800, of 1996) Visa: (OAB/UF XXXX) OPTIONAL STANDARDIZED CLAUSES FOR BRANCHES (ART. 1,000 OF THE CC) Art. XX. No harm the possibility of opening or closing a branch, or any dependency activity(ies) of (Precise and detailed description of the cooperative purpose in part or in full). § 2° In an establishment elected as a Branch located in (Site), (Number), which will be carried out ( s) the activity(ies) of (Precise and detailed description of the corporate purpose, 0 in part or in full). * If there is more than one branch, repeat the wording of the second paragraph for each of THE SOCIAL OBJECTIVES Art. XX. To fulfill its social objectives, the partner may exercise what is resolved in the General Assembly and, to the extent of his possibilities, he must: I — promote the dissemination of the cooperative doctrine and its principles within the Cooperative framework; II — promote social and educational assistance to members and their families. Educational and Social Technical Assistance (FATES), provided for in item II, art. 28 of Law 5,764, of III — provide, with FATES resources, agreements with entities specializing in technical improvement—professional | and cooperative training of its members; IV — sign contracts and intermediate credit and interest financing operations \/ — arlminigtrar nnm efiniénnia ng remirgng nhtirlng rle gens aggnniarlng nara 2 manul 05/12/2022 07:41 INSTRUQ/-KO NORMATIVE N° 81, OF JUNE 10, 2020 ~ NORMATIVE INSTRUCTION N” 81, OF JUNE 10 DE 2020 - d) minutes of the Administration body; and e) minutes of the Fiscal Council; II — authenticated by a competent authority: a) tax; and b) accounting. Single paragraph. The adoption of loose-leaf books or cards is permitted, due to Art. XX. In the Registration Book, members will be registered in chronological order: I — the name, age, marital status, nationality, profession and residence of the member; II — the date of his admission, and when applicable, his dismissal, elimination or ex« III — the current account of the respective shares — parts of the share capital. https://www.in.gov.brlen/web/dou/-/instrucao~normativa~n-81-de->10~de-junho~de~2020~261499054 66/66