LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL RESOLUTION No. 4,122, OF AUGUST 2, 2012 Establishes requirements and procedures for incorporation, authorization to operate, cancellation of authorization, changes in control, corporate reorganizations and conditions for holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies of the institutions which specifies. The Central Bank of Brazil, in accordance with art. 9th of Law No. 4,595, of December 31, 1964, makes public that the National Monetary Council, in an extraordinary session held on August 2, 2012, based on art. 4, item VIII, and in art. 10, item XI, of said Law, in Law No. 4,728, of July 14, 1965, in art. 20, § 1°, of Law No. 4,864, of November 29, 1965, in Law No. 6,099, of September 12, 1974, and in art. 1 of Provisional Measure No. 2,192-70, of August 24, 2001, RESOLVED: Art. 1 This Resolution establishes, in accordance with Regulations Annexes I and 11, respectively I - requirements and procedures for authorization for incorporation and operation, cancellation of authorization and changes in control and corporate reorganizations of multiple banks, commercial banks, investment banks, development banks, exchange banks, credit, financing and investment companies, real estate credit companies , mortgage companies, development agencies, leasing companies, securities and securities brokerage companies, companies distributing securities and foreign exchange brokerage companies; and H - conditions for holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies of financial institutions and other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. Art. 2 The Central Bank of Brazil must have: I - the documents necessary to instruct the processes relating to the matters covered by this Resolution; ll - the deadlines to be observed when instructing processes. Art. 3° 0 Bank Central do Brasil, in the course of analyzing the matters addressed in this Resolution, may: I - request any documents and additional information that it deems necessary for the decision on the claim, including from authorities abroad; ll - call for a technical interview the members of the control group, those holding qualified participation and those nominated, elected or appointed to hold positions in statutory or contractual bodies of the institution. LL 1-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL Art. 4 “The Central Bank of Brazil, in analyzing the processes covered by this Resolution, considering the circumstances of each specific case and the context of the facts, may waive, exceptionally and in the face of duly justified public interest, compliance with the conditions established for entry into the control group of institutions referred to in art. 1“, item I, or to exercise the positions provided for in art. 1st, item 11. Art. 5 “The Central Bank of Brazil may reject requests related to the matters covered by this Resolution, if the following is determined: I - circumstances that may affect the reputation of administrators, members of the control group, holders of qualified holdings; II - falsity in the statements or documents presented in the investigation of the process. Line paragraph. In the cases covered by this article, the Central Bank of Brazil will grant interested parties a period of time to present justifications. Art. 6 For the purposes of the provisions of this Resolution, the following is understood as: I - qualifying participation is the participation, direct or indirect, held by natural or legal persons, equivalent to 15% (fifteen percent) or more of representative shares or quotas of the total capital of the institutions referred to in art. 1st, item I; II - control group: person, or group of people Bound by Voting Agreement or under common control, who holds shareholder rights corresponding to the majority of the capital voting capacity of a limited liability company or 75% (seventy-five percent) of the share capital of a limited liability company. (As amended by Resolution No. 4,279 of 10/31/2013.) Final paragraph. In cases where the control of the company is not identified according to the criteria mentioned in section 11 of the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil may use other elements to identify the control group. Art. 7 The Central Bank of Brazil may file requests related to the matters it deals with this Resolution when: I - there is non-compliance with any of the deadlines set out in this Resolution; on 11 - requests to present additional documents, provide information, attend technical interviews or other requests related to the process are not met within the designated deadline. Art. 8“ If, at any time, falsehoods are found in the statements or documents presented in the investigation of the processes provided for in this Resolution and considering Resolution No. 4,122, of August 2, 2012 2 LL '-IL? BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL relevance of omitted or distorted facts, based on the circumstances of each case and the public interest, the Central Bank of Brazil may: I - in the case of authorization processes for constitution and operation, review the decision that authorized the functioning of the institution; II - in the case of change of control, corporate reorganization or acquisition of qualified participation, order that the operation be regularized; III - in the case of election or appointment to hold a position in a statutory or contractual body of the institution, review the decision that approved the election or appointment. § 1° In the hypotheses described in the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil must initiate administrative proceedings, notifying the interested party at the address provided to the Autarchy to comment on the irregularity found. § 2“ The interested party will be notified by notice, if it is not found at the address provided to the Central Bank of Brazil. § 3 “The measures provided for in this article may also be adopted if circumstances are found, at any time, pre-existing or subsequent to the election or appointment that may affect the reputation of those elected or appointed to statutory or contractual positions. § 4 The relevant registration body will be notified of the measure adopted by the Central Bank of Brazil. Art. 9° The Central Bank of Brazil is authorized to download the acts necessary to execute the provisions of this Resolution. Art. 10. This Resolution comes into force on the date of its publication. Art. 11. Resolutions no. 3,040, of November 28, 2002, 3,041, of November 28, 2002, and 3,141, of November 27, 2003, except with regard to claims filed with the Central Bank of Brazil until the publication of this Resolution, which will continue to be disciplined by the provisions of the aforementioned Resolutions. Alexandre Antonio Tombini President of Central Bank of Brazil This text does not replace that published in the DOU of 6/8/2012, Section 1, p. 14-17, and at Sisbacen. Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 3 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL REGULATION ANNEX I TO RESOLUTION N” 4,122, OF AUGUST 2, 2012 Regulates the requirements and procedures for the authorization of incorporation and operation, the cancellation of authorization and changes in control and corporate reorganizations of the institutions it specifies. Art. 1“ The provisions of this Regulation multiple banks, commercial banks, investment banks, development banks, exchange banks, credit, financing and investment companies, real estate credit companies, mortgage companies, development agencies, leasing companies, property brokerage companies securities and securities, securities and securities distribution companies and foreign exchange brokerage companies. CHAPTER 1 OF THE CONSTITUTION AND AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE Art. 2° 0 to operate the institutions referred to in art. 1st assumption I - constitution, in accordance with legal standards, this Resolution and other current regulatory provisions; II - authorization to operate. Art. 3° In the constitution process, the person responsible, technically qualified, for conducting the project at the Central Bank of Brazil must be indicated, as well as the organizing group of the institution, in which they must participate, be identified. representatives of the future control group and future holders of qualified holdings. Art. 4 0 process of constitution of the institutions referred to in art. 1st will begin with the presentation, to the Central Bank of Brazil, of: I - draft of the statement of purpose provided for in item I of art. 6th; II - executive summary of the business plan provided for in item 11 of art. 6“, whose minimum content will be defined by the Central Bank of Brazil; III - identification of the members of the group control of the institution and the holders of qualified participation in the institution, with the respective corporate interests, accompanied by the declaration referred to in art. 4th of Annex II of this Resolution; IV - identification of the natural and legal persons that make up the economic group of which the institution will be part and that may exercise direct or indirect influence on its business; V - statements and documents that demonstrate that the members of the control group hold knowledge about the business sector and the segment in which the institution Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 4 LL '-IL? BANCO CENTRAL DO BRASIL intends to operate, including aspects related to market dynamics, sources of operational resources, management and risks associated with operations; VI - identification of the origin of the resources to be used in the enterprise; VII - express authorization, by all members of the control group and by all holders of qualified holdings: a) the Federal Revenue Secretariat of Brazil, to provide the Central Bank of Brazil with a copy of the declaration of income, assets and rights and real debts and burdens, relating to the last three fiscal years, for use exclusive in the respective authorization process; b) to the Central Bank of Brazil, for access to information about them contained in any public or private registration and information system, including processes and judicial or administrative procedures and police investigations. Line paragraph. In the hypothesis of shared control, the requirement referred to in item V of the caput may be met, at the discretion of the Central Bank of Brazil, by some of the members of the control group. (Included by Resolution No. 4,279, dated 10/31/2013.) Art. 5 Once the documentation has been received, prepared in accordance with art. 4th, the Central Bank of Brazil will call the institution's future controllers for an interview technique, in order to present the project proposal. § 1° If the Central Bank of Brazil deems the project proposal presented to be inadequate, it will communicate this decision to interested parties, and may call them for a new technical interview, if they resubmit the proposal, with the necessary adjustments. § 2° If, after the second technical interview, the Central Bank of Brazil maintains its unfavorable understanding of the project proposal presented, it will announce the rejection of the request. § 3° The Central Bank of Brazil may waive the technical interview, communicating this fact to interested parties, if: I - the venture proposal is sufficiently outlined in the Executive Summary and the future controllers have demonstrated the necessary knowledge about the business sector and about the segment in which the institution intends to operate; ll - the request for authorization to operate is formulated by the institution mentioned in art. 1st or by natural persons on legal entities that are part of the control group of the institution referred to in art. 1st. Art. 6 Interested parties must, within 60 (sixty) days from the favorable expression of the Central Bank of Brazil to the project proposal, comply with the following conditions: I - publication of a statement of purpose by natural or legal persons who do not be part of the control group of the institution mentioned in art. 1st, in terms of Resolution no ‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 5 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL conditions established by the Central Bank of Brazil, which must also disclose it, using, for this purpose, the means it deems most appropriate; II - presentation of a business plan composed of the following documents, covering the period stipulated by the Central Bank of Brazil in the form of § 2 of this article: a) financial plan, which must demonstrate the economic-financial viability of the project and which must include :l. economic premises; 2. project premises; 3. methodology used to evaluate the business; 4. projection, prepared on a monthly basis, of the financial statements and cash flow; 5. capital structure and sources of financing; 6. estimate of the discount rate, calculated based on a widely accepted methodology for calculating the cost of equity; 7. calculation of the Net Present Value (NPV) of the project based on the Cash Flow Available to Shareholders; 8. description of critical variables for the success of the enterprise, thus C01’1’1O the construction of three scenarios (base, conservative and ideal), in which it is possible to verify the impact generated by changes in these Variables on the results obtained; b) marketing plan, which must cover the following topics: l. strategic objectives of the enterprise; 2. description of the market in which the institution intends to operate, considering the risks that exist there and those arising from possible business concentration; 3. target audience; 4. main products and services to be offered; 5. competition analysis; 6. technologies to be used in placing products and sizing the service structure; c) operational plan, detailing the following aspects: l. the corporate composition of the institution itself and of the economic group to which the institution belongs, explaining, at all levels of participation, the members of the control group, the holders of qualified participation, the foreign participants, if any, as well as as Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 6 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL respective quantities and types of shares and quotas held, until it is clear who the ultimate controllers are; 2. the relationship that the institution intends to maintain with other natural or legal persons that make up the economic group of which it is part; 3. corporate governance standards and business management structure; 4. The institution's organizational chart and policy guys; 5. the physical structure; 6. internal controls, the structure to be used in risk management, the contingency plans to be adopted and the indication of the systems, procedures and controls to be used for the detection and prevention of operations whose characteristics may indicate the existence of crimes typified in Law No. 9,613, of March 3, 1998; 7. the structure planned to meet the requirements of the Central Bank of Brazil regarding the supply of information for statistical and supervisory purposes and the disclosure of financial statements in accordance with established standards; III - presentation of the drafts of the corporate acts establishing the legal entity subject to authorization to operate; IV - demonstration of economic-financial capacity compatible with the size, nature and objective of the enterprise, to be met, at the discretion of the Central Bank of Brazil, by the control group or, individually, by each member of the group of control; V - absence of restrictions that could, in the judgment of the Central Bank of Brazil, affect the reputation of controllers and holders of qualified holdings, applying, where applicable, the requirements established in articles. 2nd and 3rd of Annex II of this Resolution. § 1° The Central Bank of Brazil, in cases it deems necessary, may require: I - publication of a statement of purpose by natural or legal persons who are part of the institution's control group mentioned in art. 1st; II - commitment to enter into a shareholders' or quotaholders' agreement contemplating the express definition of the control group of the institution subject to the process. § 2° With reference to the documents referred to in section II of the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil, taking into account the nature and size of the institution, may: I - stipulate a minimum period of coverage to be considered in the preparation of these documents; II - adapt the fulfillment of established requirements. § 3° The following is waived: Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 7 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL I - the publication of the statement of purpose referred to in item I of the caput, in cases of constitution of development agencies; as as II - the remittance of the financial plan referred to in item II, paragraph a, of the caput, in cases of incorporation of securities and securities brokerage companies, securities and securities distribution companies and securities brokerage companies exchange. § 4° In the hypothesis of item II of § 3°, the financial plan must remain at the company's headquarters during the period stipulated in the terms of § 2°, and the Central Bank of Brazil may require its presentation at any time during this period. Art. 7 Within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from receipt of the favorable statement from the Central Bank of Brazil regarding compliance with the conditions set out in art. 6th, interested parties must I - formalize the corporate acts constitution of the legal entity to be subject to authorization to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil, leading them, after approval by the Authority, to be filed in the Commerce Registry; II - implement the organizational structure, including corporate governance, business management, internal controls and risk management structures, the hiring of electronic systems and labor, the acquisition of equipment adopted 50 of all others revised measures in the area of ​​business and necessary activities of the institution; III - submit a request to the Central Bank of Brazil requesting an inspection to be carried out in order to verify the implemented organizational structure. § 1 The statute or social contract of the legal entity referred to in the caput, item I, must expressly contain a clause establishing that: I - until the authorization for the establishment of the institution is issued, the carrying out of any activity is prohibited, especially private operations of the institutions referred to in art. 1st, only those necessary to comply with the provisions of this article are permitted; II - the company will be governed subsidiarily by the law of public limited companies, in accordance with art. 1053, paragraph 1'1, of Law No. 10,406, of January 10, 2002 (Civil Code), when not organized in the form of a limited liability company. § 2° The share capital of the company provided for in the caput, item I, must be paid in exclusively in currency. § 3° As long as the legal entity referred to in the caput, item I, maintains, in its statute in the articles of incorporation, the restrictive clause mentioned in § 1°, item I, its paid-in capital may be restricted to a sufficient amount to take the measures provided for in the caput, item 11. § 4 Until the authorization for operation is issued by the Central Bank of Brazil, the legal entity referred to in the caput, item I, will not be considered by the Authority, for any purposes, as one of the institutions referred to in art. 1st. Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 8 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL Art. 8 Within 60 (sixty) days from receipt of the document provided for in item 111 of art. 7th, the Central Bank of Brazil will carry out an inspection at the institution, in order to assess the compatibility between the implemented organizational structure and that foreseen in the business plan. Paragraph 1'1sole. Incompatibility found between the existing organizational structure and that foreseen in the business plan, the Central Bank of Brazil will set a deadline for correction, after which, in case of non-compliance, it will reject the request. Art. 9° Once the adequacy of the organizational structure has been verified, authorization to operate will depend on the presentation, to the Central Bank of Brazil, within 90 (ninety) days, of documentation proving the adoption of the following measuresz I - amendment of the statute in the articles of incorporation person's juridica referred to in section I of art. 7°, in order to adapt its share capital to the amount foreseen in the business plan; II - election of administrators and other members of the institution's statutory or contractual bodies; III - proof of the origin of the resources used in the enterprise. Art. 10. Verified, by the Central Bank of Brazil, that the conditions set out in art. 9°, authorization will be issued to establish the institution. Ilrian paragraph. Shipped to authorization referred to in the caput, the institution will be considered in operation, for the purposes of applying and observing the regulations in force. Art.ll. Once activities have begun, the institution must, during the period stipulated by the Central Bank of Brazil under the terms of § 2 of art. 6th, highlight, in the management report that accompanies the half-yearly financial statements, the adequacy of the operations carried out with the strategic objectives established in the business plan. Paragraph 1'1sole. If, during the period referred to in the caput, the inadequacy of operations with the business plan is verified, the institution must present substantiated reasons, which will be subject to examination by the Central Bank of Brazil, which may establish additional conditions for the completion of the institution, setting a deadline for non-compliance. Art. 12. In the case of requests for authorization to operate formulated by an institution mentioned in art. 1st or by natural persons on legal entities that are part of the control group of the institution referred to in art. l°, the requirements established in section 11 of art. 7th may be supplied through an operational agreement for sharing organizational structures between the legal entity to be subject to authorization for the operation referred to in item I of art. 7° and another company belonging to the same economic group. Resolution No. 4122, of August 2, 2012 9 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL CHAPTER 11 OF AUTHORIZATION FOR TRANSFER OF CORPORATE CONTROL AND FOR REORGANIZATION Art. 13. The transfer of corporate control and any change, direct or indirect, in the control group, which may imply a change in the number of people exercising the control, depend on authorization from the Central Bank of Brazil. effective management of the institution's business, resulting from: I - shareholders' agreement; II - inheritance and acts of disposition of Will, such as donation, advance of legitimate and constitution of usufruct; III - act, isolated or joint, of any person, natural or legal, or group of people representing common interest; IV - conversion into shares of instruments authorized to compose the Complementary Capital or Level 11 of the Reference Equity (PR), referred to in Resolution No. 4,192, of March 1, 2013. (Included by Resolution No. 4,279 of 10/31/2013.) Sole paragraph 1. The provisions of this article do not apply to transfers of corporate control to legal entities in which there is no change in the institution's final controllers. Art. 14. The following also depend on the authorization of the Central Bank of Brazil: I - change of corporate purpose, subject to the provisions of art. 19; II - creation or cancellation of an operational portfolio, by multiple bank; III - merger, split on incorporation; IV - corporate transformation. Art. 15. The requests referred to in arts. 13 and 14 must observe the following conditions: I - in the cases provided for in art. 13, the documents must be presented and the conditions set out in items I, III, IV, V and VII of art. 4 and in items I, IV and V of art. 6°, as well as proof of the origin of the resources used in the operation; II - in the cases provided for in art. 14, a reasoned justification must be presented for the operation. Final paragraph. The Central Bank of Brazil, in the analysis of the processes referred to in the caput, may invite interested parties to carry out a technical interview, require the presentation of additional documents and compliance with other requirements set out in arts. 4th to 8th. Resolution No. 4122, of August 2, 2012 10 LL 1-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL Art. 16. The following operations must be submitted to the Central Bank of Brazil, under the conditions it establishes: I - entry of a shareholder or quotaholder with qualified participation or with rights corresponding to qualified participation; ll - assumption of the status of shareholder or quota holder qualified participation; Ill - expansion of qualified participation in a percentage equal to or greater than 15% (fifteen percent) of the institution's capital, whether accumulated or not. § 1 “The Central Bank of Brazil may request information and documents deemed necessary to fully clarify the operation, including the origin of the resources used in it and the reputation of those involved. § 2° After examining the aspects of the operation referred to in § 1° and verifying any irregularity, the Central Bank of Brazil may determine that the operation be regularized, through its undoing or the sale of the qualified holding. § 3 “The provisions of this article do not apply to qualified participation resulting from the conversion into shares of instruments authorized to compose the Complementary Capital at Level 11 of the Reference Equity (PR), referred to in Resolution 11“ 4.192 , 2013. included by Resolution No. 4,279, of 10/31/2013.) § 4 “Participation Qualiﬁed information referred to in § 3“ must be communicated to the Central Bank of Brazil, within the deadline established by it. (included by Resolution No. 4,279 of 10/31/2013.1 CHAPTER 111 OF THE SHAREHOLDER CONTROL STRUCTURE Art. 17. Direct corporate participation that implies control of institutions referred to in art. 1 may only be exercised by: I - natural persons; ll - financial institutions based in Pals on abroad and other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil Brazil; Ill - other legal entities based in the country whose exclusive corporate purpose is to participate in financial institutions and other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. § 1° The provisions of the caput of this article do not apply to: I - development agencies; Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 11 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL II - institutions established before November 28, 2002, while the control structure lasts existing on that date. § 2° The entry of a partner or shareholder as a member of the control group requires compliance with the provisions of the caput. § 3° The Central Bank of Brazil may require the conclusion of a shareholders' or quotaholders' agreement, contemplating the express definition of corporate control, in cases in which it deems necessary. Art. 18. The absence of objection on the part of the supervisor of the country of origin is subject to: I - the establishment, in the country, of a subsidiary of an institution ﬁnancial company based abroad; II - the entry of a financial institution based abroad into the direct or indirect control group of the institution mentioned in art. 1st. CHAPTER IV CANCELLATION OF AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE Art. 19. The dissolution of the company is the change of its corporate purpose, which results in its discharacterization C01’1’1O as a company that is part of the financial system, implies the cancellation of the respective authorization to operate. Art. 20. S510 requirements essential for the cancellation, upon request, of the authorization to operate of the institutions referred to in art. 1st: 1 - publication of a statement of purpose in the terms and conditions established by the Central Bank of Brazil, which must also publish it, using, for this purpose, the means it deems most appropriate; II - deliberation in a general assembly or in a meeting of shareholders, as the case may be; III - instruction of the respective process with the Central Bank of Brazil under the terms and conditions established by him. § 1 In addition to the requirements established in this article, the Central Bank of Brazil may condition cancellation on the settlement of private passive operations of the institutions referred to in art. 1st. § 2 The provisions of this article do not apply to the extinction of the company resulting from a merger, total spin-off or incorporation, provided that the resulting institution as successor is authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. Art. 21. 0 Central Bank of Brazil may cancel the authorization to operate of the institutions referred to in this Resolution, when one or more of the following situations are found at any time: Resolution no. CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL I - lack of habitual practice of operations considered essential, within the terms of the applicable rules, for the types of institutions mentioned in art. 1 of these Regulations; II - operational inactivity; III - no location of the institution at the address provided to the Central Bank of Brazil; IV - interruption, for more than 4 (four) months, without justification, of sending to the Central Bank of Brazil the statements required by current regulations; V - non-compliance with the business plan provided for in item II of art. 6“, considering the investigation period referred to in art. 1 1. § 1° The Central Bank of Brazil, prior to the cancellation referred to in the caput, must: I - disclose to the public, by means it deems most appropriate, your intention to cancel the authorization in question, with a view to the possible presentation of objections within a period of 30 (thirty) days; II - initiate administrative proceedings, notifying the institution at the address provided to the Central Bank of Brazil to express its opinion on the intention to cancel; III - consider the risks of cancellation for the stability of the national financial system, for popular savings and for the institution's operational creditors. § 2° In the hypothesis of section III of the caput, or if the interested party is not found, the notification referred to in item II of § 1 “will be carried out by means of a notice. § 3° Once the cancellation referred to in the caput has been effected, the Central Bank of Brazil will communicate the fact to the Board of Trade or the competent registry office. Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 13 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL REGULATION ANNEX 11 RESOLUTION No. 4,122, OF AUGUST 2, 2012 Disciplines the conditions for holding positions in bodies statutory or contractual provisions of financial institutions and other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. Art. 1 “The possession and exercise of positions in statutory or contractual bodies of financial institutions and other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil are exclusive to people whose election or appointment has been accepted by the Authority, who are responsible for analyzing the respective processes and make decisions that it deems appropriate to the public interest. § 1 “The election 011 the appointment of members of statutory or contractual bodies must be submitted for approval by the Central Bank of Brazil, within a maximum period of 15 (fifteen) days of its occurrence, duly accompanied by the documentation defined by the Authority. § 2 Federal public financial institutions, whose members of statutory bodies are invested in their respective positions in accordance with the legislation in force, are excluded from the provisions of this Resolution, without prejudice to the obligation to communicate the respective acts of election or appointment to the Central Bank of Brazil within a maximum period of 15 (fifteen) days of their occurrence. Art. 2 Conditions for holding the positions referred to in art. 1st, in addition to others required by legislation and regulations in force: I - have an unblemished reputation; II - be resident in the country, in the case of director, managing partner and fiscal councilor; III - not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property in the National Financial System, sentenced to a criminal penalty that, even if temporarily, access to public positions; IV - not be declared disqualified or suspended from exercising the positions of fiscal councilor, administration councilor, director or partner-administrator in the institutions referred to in art. 1st or in supplementary pension entities, insurance companies, capitalization companies, publicly-held companies or entities subject to supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission; V - not respond, nor any company of which he is the controller or administrator, for protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, non-compliance with obligations and other occurrences in similar circumstances; VI - not be declared bankrupt or insolvent; Resolution n ‘‘ 4122, of 2 August 2012 14 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL V11 - not having controlled or managed, in the 2 (two) years preceding the election or appointment, a firm or company subject to a declaration of insolvency, liquidation, intervention, bankruptcy or judicial recovery. Single paragraph. In cases of elected or appointed candidates who do not meet the provisions of the caput, items V to VII, the Central Bank of Brazil may analyze the individual situation of the applicants, with a view to evaluating the possibility of accept the approval of their names. Art. 3 To assess compliance, by the elected or appointed person, with the requirement established in art. 2nd, item I, the Central Bank of Brazil may take into account the following situations and occurrences: I - criminal proceedings or police investigation to which the elected or appointed person, or any company of which he is or was, at the time, is responding of the facts, controller or administrator; ll - judicial or administrative process that is related to the System National Financial; Ill - other situations, occurrences or similar circumstances deemed relevant by the Central Bank of Brazil. Single paragraph. In analyzing the parameters stipulated in this article, the Central Bank of Brazil will consider the circumstances of each case, as well as the context in which the election of the candidates will take place, with a view to evaluating the possibility of accepting or refusing their names, bearing in mind the public interest. Art. 4 Without prejudice to others documents necessary to instruct the process, those elected or appointed to positions in statutory or contractual bodies of the institutions referred to in art. 1st, they must present to the Central Bank of Brazil the authorizations described in art. 4th, item VII, of Annex I of this Resolution and statement regarding its possible inclusion in any of the situations provided for in arts. 2nd and 3rd, in the form to be deﬁned by the Authority, observing the provisions of art. 8th of this Resolution. § 1° If the elected or appointed fits into any of the situations provided for in art. 3°, such circumstance must be informed in the declaration referred to in the caput, which must be accompanied by documents that allow the nature and stage of the reported occurrences to be assessed. § 2° The acceptance, by the Central Bank of Brazil, of names for the exercise of the positions referred to in art. 1st does not exempt those elected or appointed, the institution, its controllers and administrators from responsibility for the veracity of the information provided to the Authority. Art. 5 It is also a condition for holding the positions of member of the board of directors, director or partner-administrator of the institutions referred to in art. 1° have technical training compatible with the duties of the position to which they were elected or appointed. Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 15 LL 1-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL § 1° The technical qualification referred to in the caput must be proven based on training academic qualifications, professional experience or other aspects deemed relevant, through documents and declarations signed by the institutions referred to in art. 1st, submitted to evaluation by the Central Bank of Brazil concomitantly with the documentation provided for in art. 4th. § 2° The declaration referred to in § 1° is waived in cases of election of a board member, director and partner-administrator with a mandate in force at the institution itself or at another member of the respective institution. financial conglomerate. Art. 6 A statement of purposes must be published, with a view to exercising the positions of management advisor, director or partner-administrator of the institutions referred to in Annex I of this Resolution and of credit cooperatives with free admission of members, in relation to those elected or appointed, whose names have not previously been approved by the Central Bank of Brazil to hold such positions in the aforementioned institutions. Paragraph linico. The Central Bank of Brazil may, if it deems necessary, adopt the following measures regarding the statement of purposes referred to in the caput, both in isolated cases and through general rules and procedures: I - determine its publication, in the case of those elected or appointed to positions of member of the board of directors, director or partner-administrator and, also, in the case of those whose names have already been previously accepted by the Authority; ll - establish the form and the deadline for its publication, as well as the deadline for receiving objections from the public, with a view to the progress of the respective process; Ill - disseminate it through whatever means it deems most appropriate. Art. 7° 0 period of 60 (sixty) days referred to in art. 33, § 1, of Law No. 4,595, of December 31, 1964, must be counted from the date on which all the necessary information is gathered in the case so that the Central Bank of Brazil can decide the process. Line paragraph. In cases where publication of the statement of purposes referred to in art. 6°, the period established by the Central Bank of Brazil for the receipt of objections from the public is a condition for the process to be considered completed. Art. 8 0 temporary removal of a member of a statutory body from the institutions referred to in art. 1st, determined on the occasion of a process initiated in accordance with current legislation, does not exclude the person removed from the scope of the prohibitions applicable to active members. Art. 9 The Central Bank of Brazil must disclose the names of those elected or appointed by it, using, for this purpose, the means it deems most appropriate. Art. 10. The statutes or social contracts of the institutions referred to in art. 1st must contain a clause explaining that the mandate of those occupying positions in their statutory or contractual bodies, with the exception of the fiscal council, will extend until the investiture of their replacements. Resolution n‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 16 LL '-IL? CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL Final paragraph. Institutions that, on the date of publication of this Resolution, do not have the clause referred to in the caput in their statutes 011 social contracts must ensure the inclusion of such a provision in the first statutory reform or contractual amendment that they carry out after the publication of this Resolution. Art. 11. Cas0 0 r10me of e1eit0 011 n0rnead0 for the positions referred to in art. 1st is rejected by Banc0 Central do Brasil, the institution must, within 30 (thirty) days from the date on which the rejection decision becomes deﬁnitive, carry out the election or appointment of the replacement of the name no apr0Vad0. Resolution n ‘‘ 4122, of August 2, 2012 17