L' L 'luv CENTRAL BANK OF BRAZIL CMN Resolution 11° 4,970 dc 11/25/2021 Current version, updated on 6/24/2022 RESOLUC/KO CMN N9 4,970, OF NOVEMBER 25, 2021 Disciplines the authorization processes related to the functioning of the institutions it specifies. The Central Bank of Brazil, in accordance with art. 99 of Law No. 4,595, of December 31, 1964, makes public that the National Monetary Council, in a session held on November 25, 2021, based on arts. 49, item VIII, and 10, item XI, of the aforementioned Law, in Law no. 4728, of July 14, 1965, in art. 20, § 19, of Law no. 4864, of November 29, 1965, in art. 19 of Decree—Law n9 70, of November 21, 1966, in Law n9 6,099, of September 12, 1974, in art. 79 of Decree—Law No. 2,291, of November 21, 1986, in art. 19, § 49, of Law No. 6,855, of November 18, 1980, in art. 19 of Provisional Measure n9 2,192—70, of August 24, 2001, in arts. 19, § 19, and 12 of Complementary Law n9 130, of April 17, 2009, and in art. 19, item II, of Law No. 10,194, of February 14, 2001, RESOLVED: CHAPTER I OBJECT AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION Art. 19 This Resolution regulates the authorization processes related to the operation of the following institutions: I — development agencies; II ~ savings and loan associations; III — commercial banks; IV ~ exchange banks; V — development banks; VI ~ investment banks; VII — multiple banks; VIII — mortgage companies; IX — credit cooperatives; X — leasing companies; XI — foreign exchange brokerage companies; XII — securities and securities brokerage companies; XIII — direct credit companies; XIV — credit, financing and investment companies; XV ~ real estate credit companies; XVI — credit companies for microentrepreneurs and 2; small business; XVII — companies distributing securities and securities; and XVIII ~ loan companies between people. UHICO paragraph. The provisions of this Resolution apply to federal public financial institutions, with exception 2; authorization referred to in item V of art. 39. CHAPTER II REQUIREMENTS Art. 29 S50 requirements for the authorizations referred to in this Resolution: I — economic and financial capacity of the controllers, individually or jointly, compatible with the capital necessary for the structuring and operation of the institution, as well such as contingencies arising from the dynamics of the Marketplace; II — lawful origin of the resources used in the payment of share capital, in the acquisition of control and qualified participation; III — economic and financial viability of the enterprise; IV — compatibility of the information technology infrastructure with the complexity and risks of the business; V — compatibility of the corporate governance structure with the complexity and risks of the business; VI — unblemished reputation of those occupying positions in statutory bodies or contractual, controllers and holders of qualified participation, in the case of natural persons; VII — knowledge, by management, of the business sector, the segment in which the institution intends to operate, market dynamics, sources of operational resources, management of activities and the risks associated with them; VIII — technical training of administrators, compatible with the functions to be performed during the term of office; and IX — compliance with minimum requirements of capital and assets provided for in current regulations. § 19 For the purposes of the provisions of this Resolution, the administration comprises the managing partners, the directors and the members of the board of directors, if any. § 29 Upon proof of the requirement referred to in section III of the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil may require the presentation of a business plan. § 39 Upon proof of the requirement referred to in item IV of the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil may accept technical certification issued by an independent qualiﬁed company. CHAPTER III AUTHORIZATIONS Art. 39 The following depend on authorization from the Central Bank of Brazil: I — the operation of the institution, subject to compliance with the requirements set out in art. 29; II — the transfer or change of corporate control, subject to compliance with the requirements set out in items I, II and VI of art. 29 and the conditions set out in Chapters IV and \/, as well as the requirement set out in item III of art. 29, in cases changes of a strategic or operational nature; III — the merger, split or incorporation of an institution listed in art. 19, as well as dismemberment of a credit cooperative, subject to compliance with the requirements set out in items III and IX of art. 29; IV — corporate transformation; V — the possession and exercise of elected or appointed positions in statutory or contractual bodies, conditioned on compliance with the requirements set out in items VI and VIII of art. 29 and conditions set out in Chapter V; VI — the change in the value of the share capital, except for credit cooperatives, subject to compliance with the requirement set out in item II of art. 29, in case of increase, or the requirements set out in items III and IX of art. 29, in case of capital reduction; VII — the change of corporate name; VIII — the change of corporate purpose to another type of institution that is part of the National Financial System, subject to compliance with the requirements provided for in items III and IX of art. 29; IX — the creation or termination of an operational portfolio, by a multiple bank, with the creation of the portfolio being subject to compliance with the requirements set out in items III and IX of art. 29; X — the practice of leasing operations by a development agency, subject to compliance with the requirements set out in items III and IX of art. 29; XI — changes to the statutes or social contracts; XII — the change of category, in the case of credit cooperatives, subject to compliance with the requirements set out in items III and IX of art. 29; and XIII — the transfer of the registered office to another municipality. § 19 The authorization provided for in item VI of the caput does not apply to the capital increase resulting from: I — conversion of instruments authorized by the Central Bank of Brazil to compose the Complementary Capital or Level ll of the institution's Reference Equity (PR), provided that such change does not result in statutory changes or in the institution's control group; or ll ~ incorporation of capital reserves and realized profits. § 29 0 Central Bank of Brazil, to assess compliance with the requirements set out in items I, ll and VI of art. 29, may request from members of the control group, holders of qualified participation and those elected or appointed to positions in statutory or contractual bodies, express authorization for: I — the Brazilian Federal Revenue Secretariat to provide the Bank Central do Brasil copies of declarations of income, assets and rights and real debts and burdens, relating to the last three fiscal years, for exclusive use in the authorization process referred to in the caput; and ll — The Central Bank of Brazil accesses information about it contained in any public or private registration and information system, including judicial or administrative processes and procedures and police investigations. § 39 The Central Bank of Brazil may make the change of object, the termination of the operational portfolio and the change of category conditional on the liquidation of passive operations not authorized for the intended category or for the intended object. § 49 When authorizing the operation of a credit cooperative, in the event of a membership commitment, there must be a statement from the respective central cooperative or confederation. Art. 49 The Central Bank of Brazil, in the analysis of the processes covered by this Resolution, Considering the circumstances of each specific case and the context of the facts, may exempt, exceptionally and in the face of duly justified public interest, compliance with the requirements and conditions established for becoming controller of the institutions referred to in art. 19, or for the exercise of positions in statutory or contractual bodies. Art. 59 The following are subject to the absence of objection on the part of the supervisor of the country of origin: I — the operation, in the country, of subsidiary of a financial institution based abroad; and ll ~ the entry of a financial institution based abroad as controller, direct or indirect, of the institution mentioned in art. 19. Art. 69 The Central Bank of Brazil, before or after the issuance of the authorizations provided for in art. 39, may: I — request any additional documents and information it deems necessary, as well as request them from other public administration bodies and authorities abroad; It is ll — call for an interview the controllers, holders of qualified holdings and administrators of the institutions referred to in art. 19 and the founders of credit unions. Art. 79 The Central Bank of Brazil will disclose, with a view to enabling the general public to express their views regarding possible objections, information relating to requests of interest to the institution contemplating, at least: I — the names of people interested in assuming the status of controller; ll ~ os names of those elected or appointed to management positions; and III — cancellation of authorization to operate. § 19 The disclosures referred to in items I and ll of the caput will be restricted to people whose names have not previously been approved by the Central Bank of Brazil. § 29 The information referred to in: I — item I of the caput, in the case of development agencies and cooperative banks, is excluded from the obligation to disclose; ll ~ item ll of the caput, in the case of cooperatives credit; and III — item III of the caput, in the case of development agencies and credit cooperatives. § 39 Considering the nature and size of the institution, as well as the complexity and risks involved in authorization, the Central Bank of Brazil may, if it deems necessary, disclose additional information to that provided for in this article, including that exempted under the terms of §§ 19 and 29. § 49 The deadlines for the presentation of objections by the public as a result of the disclosure of information referred to in the caput will be deﬁned by the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER IV CORPORATE CONTROL AND QUALIFIED PARTICIPAC/KO Art. 89 For the purposes of this Resolution, the following is understood as: I ~ controller: person who, individually or together with other members of a control group in which he or she participates, holds rights to corresponding partner 2; majority of the voting capital of a limited liability company or 75% (seventy-five percent) of the share capital of a limited liability company: a) in the case of natural person, directly or indirectly; or b) in the case of a legal entity, directly or, if indirectly, as long as it appears at the last level of the branches of the institution's control chain and its controllers are not subject to identification in the manner provided for in this section; ll — control group: group of people linked by voting agreement or under common control who assume the status of controller of the institution, directly or indirectly; III — stakeholder qualified: natural or legal person who, although not controlling, holds: a) direct participation equivalent to 15% (fifteen percent) or more of the institution's voting capital; b) direct participation equivalent to 10% (ten percent) or more of the institution's total capital, when this capital does not consist entirely of voting capital; c) control of the legal entity holding the interest provided for in subparagraph "a" or subparagraph "b"; or d) participation in the capital of a legal entity controlling company of the institution, in the percentage provided for in paragraph "a" or in the percentage foreseen in paragraph "b". § 19 In cases of direct or indirect participation, a financial institution or similar institution based abroad is considered to be at the last level of the institution's control chain, responsible for the global consolidation of the financial group. § 29 The definitions of controller and holder of qualified participation apply to those who enjoy the right to vote. § 39 In cases where the control of the company is not identified according to the criteria mentioned in items I and ll of the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil may use other elements to identify the controllers, including: I — the majority of votes in the deliberations of the meeting or assembly and the power to elect the majority of administrators; or ll ~ the effectiveness in conducting social business. § 49 The Central Bank of Brazil may require the celebration of a shareholders' or quotaholders' agreement, contemplating the Express definition of corporate control, direct or indirect. § 59 For the purposes of this article, the possible attribution of plural voting to one or more classes of common shares will be considered. Art. 99 Direct corporate participation that implies control of the institutions referred to in art. 19 can only be exercised by: I — natural persons; ll ~ institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil; III — financial or similar institutions based abroad; or IV — legal entities based in the country whose exclusive corporate purpose is to hold equity participation in institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. § 19 Participation in the control of the institutions referred to in art is admitted. 19 of non-profit people who, on the date of entry into force of this Resolution, already participate in the control of institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. § 29 The provisions of the caput of this article do not apply to: I — development agencies; ll — institutions established before November 28, 2002, as long as the control structure existing on that date continues. Art. 10. Corporate control of direct credit companies and peer-to-peer loan companies, in addition to the hypotheses provided for in art. 99, can be exercised by an investment fund: I — in isolation, only in the indirect modality, through a legal entity based in the country whose exclusive corporate purpose is shareholding in financial institutions and other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil; or II » together with a person or group of people. § 19 In the hypothesis provided for in the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil may demand additional paid-in share capital and liquid assets. § 29 The investment fund established abroad can only exercise control in the manner provided for in item I of the caput if there is a supervisory authority responsible for its inspection. Art. 11. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to credit cooperatives and savings and loan associations. CHAPTER V TENURE AND EXERCISE OF POSITIONS IN STATUTORY OR CONTRACTUAL BODIES AND THE ASSUMPTION OF THE STATUS OF MEMBERS OF THE CONTROL GROUP or AS HOLDER OF QUALIFIED PARTICIPATION Art. 12. In proving compliance with the requirement of an unblemished reputation, mentioned in section VI of art. 29, the existence of: I — criminal proceedings or police investigation; II ~ judicial or administrative process that is related to the National Financial System or the Brazilian Payment System; III — proceedings relating to insolvency, liquidation, intervention, bankruptcy or judicial recovery; IV ~ non-compliance with obligations; and V — other similar situations, occurrences or circumstances. Single paragraph. In the analysis of the situations and occurrences foreseen in the caput, the relevance, severity, recurrence and consequences will be considered. circumstances of each case. Art. 13. Proof of compliance with the technical training requirement of administrators, mentioned in item VIII of art. 29, involves the skills and qualifications necessary to perform functions, compatible with the nature, size, complexity and risks incurred by the institution. Single paragraph. Proof of technical qualification mentioned in the caput is waived in the case of an administrator with a mandate in force at the institution itself or in another institution that is part of a prudential conglomerate in which it participates, as long as it has been previously authorized by the Central Bank of Brazil, unless otherwise determined by that authority. Art. 14. Conditions for holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies and assuming the status of controller or holder of qualified participation in the institutions referred to in art. 19, in addition to others required by legislation and regulations in force: I — be a resident of Brazil, to management positions; II — not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime of bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property or the National Financial System , or sentenced to a sentence that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; III — not be declared disqualified or suspended from holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies in institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil or in supplementary pension entities, insurance companies, capitalization companies, publicly-held companies or entities subject to supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission; and IV ~ not be declared bankrupt or insolvent. Art. 15. The statutes or social contracts of the institutions referred to in art. 19 must contain a clause explaining that the mandate of: I — occupants of positions in their statutory bodies or contractual bodies, with the exception of non-permanent bodies, will extend until the inauguration of new elected or appointed members; and II — elected administrators will be for a fixed term, not exceeding four years, with re-election permitted, in the case of institutions constituted in the form of a limited company. Art. 16. If the person elected or appointed to a position in statutory or contractual bodies is not authorized by the Central Bank of Brazil, the institution must, within thirty days from the date on which the rejection decision becomes deﬁnitive, the election or appointment of the replacement of the person not approved is carried out. Single paragraph. The determination provided for in the caput is waived if the minimum number of members for the respective positions provided for in the statute or articles of association is met. Art. 17. The temporary removal of a member of a statutory or contractual body, determined upon the occasion of an administrative sanctioning process instituted in accordance with current legislation, shall not excludes the person removed from the reach of the fences applicable to occupants in exercise. Art. 18. The Central Bank of Brazil may determine the removal of members of statutory or contractual bodies with a mandate in force if circumstances are found, at any time, that characterize non-compliance with the requirement referred to in section VI of art. 29 and the conditions provided for in art. 14 of this Resolution. CHAPTER VI FILING, REJECTION AND REVIEW OF AUTHORIZATIONS Art. 19. In relation to the authorization requests referred to in this Resolution, the Central Bank of Brazil may: I — archive, without assessing the merits of the request, when: a) it verifies that the object or elements that serve as the basis for the request were changed during the process; b) there is a failure to comply with the deadlines set out in current regulations; c) identify that the requirements to complement the process instruction were not met within the established deadline; d) leave the controllers, holders of qualifying holdings, founders, in the case of credit cooperatives, or administrators to respond to a call from the Central Bank of Brazil for an interview; or e) the instruction does not comply with the format required by current regulations. ll ~ reject, if it determines: a) circumstances that may affect the reputation of those occupying positions in statutory or contractual bodies, controlling shareholders or holders of qualified holdings; B) falsehood or omission in the statements and documents presented in the investigation of the processes or discrepancy between them and the facts or data determined in the analysis; or c) failure to comply with any of the requirements or conditions established in this Resolution, or failure by interested parties to demonstrate compliance with these requirements or conditions. Paragraph U|’llCO. In the cases referred to in item ll of the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil, before the decision, may grant interested parties a period of time to manifestation. Art. 20. The Central Bank of Brazil may review the authorization decision, considering the relevance of the facts, based on the circumstances of each case and the public interest, if it verifies: I — falsity or omission in the statements and documents presented in the instruction of the processes or discrepancy between them and the facts or data verified; or ll — circumstances pre-existing the decision capable of affecting the assessment regarding compliance with the requirements and conditions to approve them and authorizations. § 19 In the case of transfer of control, corporate reorganization, assumption of the status of controller or holder of qualified participation and in the occurrence of one of the situations provided for in the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil may determine that the operation be regularized , including through its dissolution or the sale of the stake. § 29 In the hypotheses described in the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil must notify the institution to report on the irregularity found. § 39 The competent registration body will be notified of the measure adopted by the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER VII CANCELLATION OF AUTHORIZATION/KO Art. 21. Cancellation of authorization will occur in the following cases: I — at the request of the institution; and II ex officio, by the Central Bank of Brazil. § 19 In the event of the institution being extinguished as a result of a merger, total spin-off or incorporation, the procedures relating to the cancellation of authorization to operate, provided that the resulting or successor company is an institution authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil. § 29 The Central Bank of Brazil may condition the cancellation referred to in item I of the caput to the liquidation or transfer of private or permitted operations 2; institution due to the respective authorization. § 39 The dissolution of the company or the change of its corporate purpose, which results in its disqualification as a company that is part of the financial system, implies the cancellation of the respective authorization to operate, in accordance with item I of the caput. Art. 22. The institution must disclose to its customers, through its website and on its premises, that it intends to file a request for cancellation of authorization to operate, at least thirty days in advance of the date of said order. Art. 23. The Central Bank of Brazil may carry out the cancellation referred to in item II of the caput of art. 21 of this Resolution when one or more of the following situations are found, at any time: I — lack of habitual practice of the activity subject to authorization; II ~ the institution is not located at the address informed to the Central Bank of Brazil; III — interruption, for more than four months, without justification, of sending statements, maps and information required by current regulations to the Central Bank of Brazil; or IV ~ non-compliance with the business plan during its period of coverage, in an insufficiently justified manner, at the discretion of the Central Bank of Brazil. § 19 The Central Bank of Brazil, prior to the cancellation provided for in this article, must: I — disclose to the public its intention to cancel the respective authorization, with a view to possible presentation of objections within a period of thirty days; II ~ notify the institution to express its opinion on the intention to cancel; and III — consider the risks of cancellation to the stability of the financial system national, for popular savings and for the institution's operational creditors. § 29 Once the cancellation referred to in this article has been effected, the Central Bank of Brazil will communicate it to the competent registration body. § 39 In the case of an institution subject to the extrajudicial liquidation regime, the cancellation provided for in this article will occur at the end of the regime, except in the event of transfer of corporate control of the institution. CHAPTER VIII COMMUNICATIONS Art. 24. They must be communicated to the Central Bank of Brazil the following operations: I — assumption of the status of holder of qualified holdings; and II — change in capital resulting from the conversion of instruments authorized by the Central Bank to make up the Complementary Capital or Level II of the institution's Reference Equity (PR), referred to in item I of § 19 of art. 39. § 19 In the event of the situation described in item I of the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil may, within sixty days of communication, demand proof of compliance with the requirements set out in items II and VI of art. 29 and the conditions referred to in art. 14. § 29 Once the aspects of the operation referred to in section I of the caput have been examined and non-compliance with the applicable requirements has been verified, the Central Bank of Brazil may determine its undoing or the sale of the qualified holding. CHAPTER IX GENERAL PROVISIONS Art. 25. The institutions referred to in art. 19 that are incorporated in the form of a limited company, when permitted by the legislation and regulations in force, they must provide in their statutes or articles of incorporation that the company will be governed additionally by the law on public limited companies, in accordance with art. 1,053, sole paragraph, of Law No. 10,406, of January 10, 2002 (Civil Code), including with regard to profit retention and 2; constitution, reversal and use of reserves. Art. 26. The Central Bank of Brazil may carry out pre-operational inspection at the institution in order to assess the compatibility between the implemented organizational structure and the requirements set out in art. 29, items III to V. Sole paragraph. Incompatibility was found between the existing organizational structure and the requirements set out in art. 29, items III to V, the Central Bank of Brazil will determine a deadline for correction, after which, in case of non-compliance, it will reject the request. Art. 27. The Central Bank of Brazil may lower the standards and adopt the necessary measures for the execution of the provided for in this Resolution. Lillian paragraph. In exercising the powers provided for in the caput, the Central Bank of Brazil will consider the object of the authorization, the nature and size of the institution, as well as the complexity and risk of the business. Art. 28. The provisions of this Resolution apply to authorization requests filed with the Central Bank of Brazil as of the entry into force of this normative act. CHAPTER x FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 29. The following are hereby revoked: I — Resolution no. 3166, of 29 January 2004; ll ~ Resolution no. 4,122, of August 2, 2012; III — Resolution no. 4,279, of October 31, 2013; IV ~ Resolution no. 4,308, of January 30, 2014; V — the following provisions of Resolution no. 4,434, of August 5, 2015: a) arts. 29 to 12; b) 0 art. 14; C) 0s arts. 47 to 51; and d) 0 art. 65; VI ~ the following provisions of Resolution no. 4,656, of April 26, 2018: a) arts. 27 to 41—A: and b) 0 art. 43; and VII — the following provisions of the Resolution n9 4721, of May 30, 2019: a) arts. 89 and 99; and b) arts. 12 to 21. .mm effective on 1'9'dEjuH‘TO'dE 20”“. Art. 30. This Resolution comes into force on September 19, 2022. _(As amended by CMN Resolution no. 5020, of 6/23/2022.) <https://www.bcb.gov.br/estabilidadeFinanceira /exibenormativo?tipo=Resolu%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20CMN&numero=5020> Roberto de Oliveira Campos Neto President of the Central Bank of Brazil