72.5 Sicredi VOTE CAD N9 25-2022 - Ratification of the Succession Policies of Central Cooperatives, Individuals and the Bank. Porto Alegre, October 19, 2022. To the Board of Directors of Sicredi Participagﬁes and Banco Cooperativo Sicredi In accordance with articles 29 and 39 of the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Participagﬁes S.A, article 19 of the Bylaws of Sicredi Participagﬁes S.A, The Executive Board forwards this Vote for analysis and deliberation: Objectives — Decide on the ratification of the Succession Policies for Central, Individual and Bank Cooperatives, approved in 2017. The Policies establish the guidelines and rules for the process of preparing successors for senior management positions at Central, Individual and Bank Cooperatives. Bank. Justification — The Policies had their content proposed and approved in 2017, at Meeting 1099 of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Participagﬁes, in accordance with CMN Resolution n. 4,538/16, revoked by CMN Resolution No. 4,878/20, which determines the need for review at least every five years. In 2022, no changes will be applied to the current content. After approval of the Systemic Succession Model, a new review will be conducted by the responsible area, in order to assess any need to update the Policies. Based on the forecast contemplated in Sicredi's Normative Management Standard, it is proposed to ratify the Policies, in compliance with the deadline regulatory review. Costs involved — N50 ha additional costs involved. Risks involved — We have not identified any risks involved. Governance —Together with the People Management Managers at the Centers, the proposed format was agreed upon. Conclusion — We request a deliberation from the Board of Directors of Sicredi Participagoes and Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, without the need for systemic deliberation, given that there were no changes to the versions already approved. Attachments 1) Policy on Succession of Positions for Senior Management of Central Cooperatives 2) Policy for Succession of Positions for Senior Management of Individual Cooperatives 3) Policy for Succession of Positions for Senior Management of the Bank Records in the minutes: CAD SicrediPar and Bank. Sincerely, Cesar Gioda Bochi Executive Director of CA5