01/26/2023 1 1:39 Lcp 196 www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 1/8 Presidency of the Republic General Secretariat Subchief for Legal Affairs COMPLEMENTARY LAW No. 196, OF AUGUST 24 DE 2022 Amends Complementary Law No. 130, of April 17, 2009 (Law on the National Cooperative Credit System), to include service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives among the institutions that are part of the National Cooperative Credit System and among the institutions to be authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil; and takes other measures. THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC I make it known that the National Congress decrees and I sanction the following Complementary Law: Art. 1 Complementary Law No. 130, of April 17, 2009 (Law of the National Cooperative Credit System), comes into force with the following amendments: “Art. 1st Financial institutions constituted in the form of credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives are subject to the provisions of this Complementary Law, as well as, where applicable, the legislation applicable to the National Financial System (SFN) and cooperative societies. § 1 The legal powers of the National Monetary Council (CMN) and the Central Bank of Brazil in relation to financial institutions apply to credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives. .................................................... .................................................... ........... § 3 For the purposes of this Complementary Law, the following are considered: I - credit cooperatives: individual credit cooperatives, central credit cooperatives and credit confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives credit; and II - service confederations: confederations constituted exclusively by central credit cooperatives, to provide services pertinent, complementary or necessary to the activities carried out by their affiliates or by individual cooperatives affiliated to these central cooperatives, excluding private services and operations of financial institutions.” (NR) “Art. 2nd .................................................. ................................................. § 1º The raising of resources and the granting of credits and guarantees must be restricted to members, with the exception: I - the raising, by cooperative singular credit, resources from Municipalities, their bodies or entities and companies controlled by them; II - operations carried out with other financial institutions; III - resources obtained from legal entities, on an occasional basis, at favorable rates or exempt from remuneration; IV - assistance and financial support operations carried out with the guarantee funds referred to in item IV of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law;26/01/2023 1 1:39 Lcp 196 www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 2/8V - operations carried out with central credit cooperatives or credit confederations to which they are affiliated, or with other guarantee funds constituted by them; and VI - transfers from official institutions or public funds. § 2 Subject to the provisions of § 1 of this article, the provision of other services of a financial and related nature to members and non-members, including entities that are part of the public Power. .................................................... .................................................... ........... § 9 The operation referred to in item I of § 1 of this article can only be carried out with the Municipality where the credit cooperative has an installed dependency, with its bodies or entities and with companies by they controlled. § 10. Credit cooperatives are permitted to manage official resources or public or private funds intended for granting guarantees to members in operations with the managing cooperative itself or with third parties.” (NR) “Art. 2nd-A. The area of ​​activity of individual credit cooperatives comprises: I - area of ​​action: area constituted by the Municipalities in which their headquarters and other facilities are located, as provided for in the bylaws; and II - member admission area: area delimited by the possibilities of meeting, control, carrying out operations and providing services, by face-to-face or electronic means, being able, according to these criteria, to reach people domiciled in any location in the national territory.” “Art. 2º-B. It is possible to carry out credit operations with the sharing of resources and risks by a group of credit cooperatives that are part of the same cooperative system. Single paragraph. The CMN will provide for the conditions to be observed when contracting the operations provided for in the caput of this article.” “Art. 4º The social framework of credit cooperatives It may be composed of individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities and will be defined by the general assembly, with provisions in the bylaws. § 1 The following will not be admitted to the membership of individual credit cooperatives: I - the Union, the States, the Federal District and the Municipalities, as well as the respective agencies, foundations and dependent state-owned companies; and II - legal entities and depersonalized entities that, in their main activities, exercise effective competition with main activities of the credit union itself. § 2 The prohibition referred to in item I of § 1 of the caput of this article does not prevent the social structure of the individual credit cooperative from being integrated by professional supervisory councils.” (NR) “Art. 5º Credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives will have a board of directors, which will be composed of members elected by the general assembly and an executive board attached to it. subordinate. § 1º The CMN, under the terms of the regulations, may admit the hiring of a non-associated independent board member, in the manner provided for in the bylaws, provided that the majority of the board members are made up of associated natural persons.26/01/2023 1 1: 39 Lcp 196 www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 3/8§ 2º The executive board, as a statutory body, will be composed of natural persons elected by the board of directors, who may be associated or not, as long as the majority of directors are associated natural persons. § 3º It is prohibited for those occupying the positions of president or vice-president of the board of directors or executive director in credit cooperatives or in service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives to exercise these positions simultaneously with those of: I - president or vice-president of the board of directors or executive director of a single cooperative of credit, central credit cooperative or confederation that are part of the same cooperative system; and II - president or vice-president of the board of directors or executive director of the funds referred to in item IV of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law. § 4 The term of office of members of the board of directors of credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives will last up to 4 (four) years, the constitution of alternate member. § 5º The CMN, considering the risks, complexity, classification and size of the credit cooperative, may: I - make the constitution of the board of directors optional; and II - allow the accumulation of positions on the executive board in credit cooperatives or in service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives, without observing the provisions of item I of § 3 of this article, as long as no conflict of interests is identified. § 6 In cases where If the credit cooperative does not establish a board of directors, the executive board will be elected by the general assembly. § 7 The remuneration policy for those occupying positions in the executive board must be approved by the general assembly, at least at the beginning of each term.” (NR) “Art. 6º The fiscal councils of credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives will be made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all members and elected by the general assembly, with a term of office of up to 3 (three) years. § 1º It is prohibited for those occupying the position of fiscal councilor in credit cooperatives or in service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives to exercise simultaneously, in the same cooperative system, this position with others in: I - board of directors of a single cooperative of credit; or II - executive board of a single credit cooperative, central credit cooperative or confederation made up of central credit cooperatives. § 2 The constitution of a fiscal council is optional for: I - credit cooperatives managed by a board of directors and executive board; and II - service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives and managed by a board of directors and executive board.” (NR) “Art. 7th .................................................. ................................................. § 1st No the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages, in an isonomic manner, in promotional campaigns to attract new members or increase capital26/01/2023 1 1:39 Lcp 196 constitutes distribution of benefits to the quota-parties www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 4/8social by the membership, as long as it is linked to the effective increase in the cooperative's share capital. § 2 Policies for attracting new members or increasing of share capital by the membership, as well as the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages for these purposes, must be defined by the board of directors or, in its absence, by the executive board, in compliance with CMN regulations.” (NR) “Art. 9º-A. In the case of incorporation of a credit cooperative, the credit corresponding to the value of the losses incurred by each member of the merged cooperative accumulated until the date of incorporation, it may, upon approval of the general meeting, be transferred to the guarantee funds referred to in item IV of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law, with the purpose of carrying out financial assistance and support operations, in compliance with the fund's regulations. § 1 The general assembly that approves the incorporation referred to in the caput of this article will define the value of the portion corresponding to each member in the balance of losses incurred and not yet apportioned or, if already prorated, not paid until the date of incorporation. § 2 The debt referred to in the caput of this article will be paid, as a priority, with the surpluses from the following years to which the debtor member would be entitled in the incorporating cooperative and with the amounts relating to the annual remuneration of the shares referred to in the art. 7th of this Complementary Law. § 3 Without prejudice to the provisions of § 2 of this article, the right of the guarantee fund referred to in the caput of this article to charge the amount relating to the debt of each cooperative member through ordinary channels, under the terms agreed upon in the credit assignment. § 4 The incorporating credit cooperative is prohibited from being co-obligated in the assignment operation referred to in this article.” “Art. 10. The refund of capital shares also depends on compliance with the equity limits required in accordance with current regulations, and the partial refund is also subject to specific authorization from the board of directors or, in its absence, the executive board. § 1º Shares in the capital of a credit cooperative are unseizable. § 2 As long as the refund remains non-requirable due to non-observance of the limits referred to in the caput of this article, the capital shares will remain recorded in the cooperative's net equity accounts.” (NR) “Art. 12. ............................................. ............................................... I - conditions constitution and operation of credit cooperatives and credit confederations service constituted by central credit cooperatives, with a view to the respective process of granting authorization by the Central Bank of Brazil; II - conditions to be observed in the preparation of the bylaws, in the formation of the membership, in the holding of assemblies and deliberative meetings and in the conclusion of contracts with other institutions; .................................................... .................................................... .......... IV - guarantee funds, including the linking of credit cooperatives to such funds, the establishment of conditions for holding positions in their statutory bodies and the establishment of requirements for those occupying these positions to have access to data and information protected by legal secrecy; V - activities carried out by entities of any nature whose purpose is to carry out, in relation to a group of credit cooperatives or service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives, supervision, control, audit,26/01/2023 1 1:39 Lcp 196 www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 5/8certification of employees and managers and management or execution on a larger scale of their operational functions; VI - connection to entities that carry out, in accordance with the regulations, supervisory, control and audit activities of credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives; VII - conditions of corporate participation in other entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interests of the membership and the community; .................................................... .................................................... ......... IX - composition and renewal of members of the administrative and fiscal councils and requirements for exercising functions on these councils and on the executive board of credit cooperatives and credit confederations service constituted by central credit cooperatives; X - Conditions for the General Assembly to allocate leftovers for the recomposition of funds of the guaranteeing funds referred to in item IV of this caput used in assistance and financial support operations to the Singular Credit Cooperative; and XI - conditions for the Central Bank of Brazil to grant the authorization referred to in art. 16-A of this Complementary Law and other aspects necessary for the execution of the measure provided for therein, including in relation to the criteria for the appointment and removal of those occupying positions in statutory bodies of the affected affiliated cooperative. .................................................... .................................................... ........... § 2º The Central Bank of Brazil, in the exercise of its supervisory powers over credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives, as well as the entity that carries out activities of supervision, under the terms of item V of the caput of this article, may call an extraordinary general meeting of a supervised institution, to which they may send representatives with the right to speak.” (NR) “Art. 13. The following do not constitute a violation of the duty of secrecy covered by current legislation: I - access, by central credit cooperatives, by confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives and by the entities referred to in item V of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law, the data and information held by credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives, provided that it occurs exclusively in the performance of supervisory, auditing and control duties and in the execution of operational functions of credit cooperatives and confederations services constituted by central credit cooperatives; II - the sharing, by the Central Bank of Brazil, of data and information about credit cooperatives or about a service confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives with the entity that carries out the audit activity referred to in item V of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law, including information relating to operations carried out by the audited institutions with other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil necessary to carry out that activity; III - sharing with the Central Bank of Brazil, by the entities referred to in section V of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law, data and information obtained in the performance of their activities; IV - access, by the guarantee funds referred to in item IV of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law, to data and information held by credit cooperatives, as long as it occurs exclusively in the performance of monitoring duties and financial assistance and support to a single credit cooperative; 01/26/2023 1 1:39 Lcp 196 www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 6/8V - the sharing, by the Central Bank of Brazil, with the guarantee funds referred to in item IV of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law, data and information on credit cooperatives, as long as it occurs exclusively for the performance of monitoring duties and financial assistance and support to individual credit cooperatives; and VI - sharing with the Central Bank of Brazil, through the guarantee funds referred to in the item IV of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law, data and information obtained in the performance of its monitoring and financial assistance and support activities. Single paragraph. (Revoked). § 1 The entity that carries out the activities referred to in item V of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law: I - must maintain secrecy in relation to the information obtained in the exercise of their duties, as well as communicate to the competent authorities signs of committing criminal offenses or administrative or operations that involve resources arising from any criminal practice; and II - may not deny or hinder access to records, books, documents and working papers, or fail to display or provide them, to the Central Bank of Brazil. § 2 The sharing of data and information referred to in items II, III, V and VI of the caput of this article may be carried out independently of authorization from the credit cooperative, the confederation of service constituted by central credit cooperatives or other people to whom the information may refer. § 3º The guarantee funds referred to in item IV of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law must maintain secrecy in relation to the operations they carry out and the information and data they obtain in the exercise of their duties.” (NR) “Art. 14-A. A single credit cooperative can only disaffiliate from a central credit cooperative, on its own initiative or on the initiative of the central credit cooperative, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. Single paragraph. The disaffiliation, by the individual credit cooperative, on its own initiative, from the central credit cooperative to which it is affiliated, depends on the agreement of: I - the majority of its members, to become independent; or II - of the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another cooperative credit center.” “Art. 15-A. The central credit cooperative can only disaffiliate from a confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives, on its own initiative or that of the confederation, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. Single paragraph. The disaffiliation, by the central credit cooperative, on its own initiative, from a confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives, depends on the agreement of at least 2/3 (two thirds) of its associates, in a general meeting called exclusively for this purpose, ensuring the participation of the confederation’s legal representatives, with the right to speak.” “Art. 16-A. The Central Bank of Brazil, subject to the conditions established by the CMN, may authorize the central credit cooperative or the confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives to assume, on a temporary basis, the administration of a credit cooperative subject to its supervision, in situations that compromise or may compromise the continuity of the affiliate or that cause or may cause losses to its members.26/01/2023 1 1:39 Lcp 196 www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 7/8 § 1 Once the authorization referred to in the caput of this article has been granted and while the measure lasts: I - the credit cooperative will be prevented from disaffiliating from the central credit cooperative or the confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives and from terminating its credit activity. supervision provided in accordance with item V of the caput of art. 12 of this Complementary Law; and II - the central credit cooperative or the confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives that assumes administration may determine the removal of any directors and members of the administrative and supervisory boards of the affected affiliated credit cooperative. § 2 The adoption of the measures referred to in § 1 of this article does not depend on approval at a general meeting or provision in the company's bylaws. Affiliated credit union affected.” “Art. 17. The ordinary general meeting of credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives will be held annually, in the first 4 (four) months of the fiscal year.” (NR) “Art. 17-A. General meetings of credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives may be held in person, remotely or in person and at distance simultaneously. § 1 The credit cooperative or service confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives must enable participation and dialogue between members and the assembly and ensure the inviolability of the voting process. § 2 Representation of members by delegates at general assemblies of individual credit cooperatives is permitted, subject to CMN regulations.” “Art. 17-B. Notices for general assemblies will be carried out at least 10 (ten) days in advance and published, prominently, on the cooperative's website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. Single paragraph. The notice calling for the general meeting must contain, at a minimum: I - the matters that will be the subject of deliberation; II - the way in which the general meeting will be held; III - the method of access to the means of communication made available for member participation, in the case of holding a meeting at distance or in person and remotely simultaneously; and IV - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for accepting votes.” “Art. 17-C. Credit cooperatives and service confederations constituted by central credit cooperatives are required to establish a Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund, which will be made up of at least 5% (five percent) of the net surpluses determined in the year and intended to provide assistance to associates and their families. Single paragraph. By express provision in the statute, the fund referred to in the caput of this article may also be used to provide assistance to employees of the credit cooperative or service confederation constituted by central credit cooperatives and the community located in its area of ​​action. ” “Art. 17-D. Balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payable not sought by dismissed, eliminated or excluded associates will be reverted to 01/26/2023 1 1:39 Lcp 196 www .planalto.gov .br/ccivil_03/Leis/LCP/Lcp196.htm 8/8reserve fund of the credit cooperative after 5 (five) years have passed since dismissal, elimination or exclusion.” “Art. 17-E. The hiring, by credit cooperatives, of services from cooperative banks does not form an employment relationship between their employees and the aforementioned banks nor does it change their professional status.” Art. 2 Service confederations constituted by central cooperatives credit in operation on the date of publication of this Complementary Law must request operating authorization from the Central Bank of Brazil within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days, counting from the entry into force of this Complementary Law. Art. 3 The sole paragraph of art. 13 of Complementary Law No. 130, of April 17, 2009 (National Cooperative Credit System Law). Art. 4 This Complementary Law comes into force on the date of its publication. Brasília, August 24, 2022; 201st of Independence and 134th of the Republic. JAIR MESSIAS BOLSONARO Paulo Guedes This text does not replace that published in the DOU of 8/25/2022 *