THINK GLOBAL, ACT LOC ANNUAL REPORT COOPERATIVA SICREDI ALIANÇA RS/SC/ESAPRESENTAÇÃO Schedule The Sicredi Report 2022 is a publication of the Aliança de Crédito RS/SC/ES General Coordination: Communication and Marketing Advisory Texts and Electronic Publishing: Four Comunicação Photography: Tuchê Spenassato, Marcelo Parizzi, Sicredi Aliança Archive and Sicredi Image Bank Circulation: 4,000 copies Address: Rua Gustavo Silveira Ferret, 124 Bairro Santa Lúcia – Marau – RS - CEP: 99150-000Happy reading! With great joy, we present the Annual Report of Sicredi Aliança Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Espírito Santo for the year 2022. There are many reasons, portrayed in this publication, that prove that we are on the right path , generating income and social development among the communities in the 47 municipalities in which we operate. We are part of the Sicredi Cooperative System, which completed 120 years of history in 2022. A trajectory focused on sustainability, which prioritizes business management aimed at reducing impacts and expanding positive values ​​in the economic, social and environmental spheres. Our purpose is to generate value for associates, employees, communities and other interested parties. In this report you will find a summary of the main achievements of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES in 2022, as well as the financial results, events held and the solutions we offer to the most diverse audiences.Message from the Strategic Board Message from the Executive Board 01 - 120 years of cooperativism Cooperativism: 120 years of Sicredi The pioneers of Rochdale Timeline The seven principles of cooperativism Our cooperative essence Virtuous cycle of cooperativism 02 - Our Cooperative More than 40 years dedicated to making a difference in community Our Cooperative in Numbers Mission, Vision, Values ​​and Purpose Board of Directors Fiscal Council Virtual Nucleus Assembly Balance Sheet Statement of surpluses or losses 03 - Sustainability Strategy Our Sustainability Strategy Commitment to the Global Compact and the SDGs 04 - Highlights 2022 Year marked by expansion: five branches in Espírito Santo Cooperative closes the year with 22 branches on Santa Catarina soil Rancho Queimado Fourth Branch in São José Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES has a new Director of Operations Sicredi is among the most remembered brands in SC Visit from Sicredi União Metropolitana Vice-governor Ranolfo Vieira Junior visits new headquarters of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES Delegations from Espírito Santo visit Rio Grande do Sul Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES book highlights Cooperation and Prosperity 05 - Relationships and Cooperativism More than 1.4 thousand members attend Business Round Lecture brings together members in Seraﬁna Corrêa Municipalities of Camargo and São Domingos do Sul win chimarródromos More than R$ 1 million distributed at the Anniversary Sicredi Winner Program Crescer Sicredi delivers Sicredi Life Insurance prizes Aliança RS/SC/ES distributes more than R$ 9.5 million to members Personalized service is here to stay and conquer 06 - Local development More than R$ 864 thousand in resources from the Social Fund See the complete list of entities and projects benefited in Rio Grande do Sul See the complete list of entities and projects benefiting in Santa Catarina A União Faz a Vida Program Continuing training in Marau HPB Cooper is the first School Cooperative in Marau Financial education with the play theatrical #Together Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis Pedagogical Exhibition More than 300 volunteers participate in Day C 07 - Service Network Agencies in Rio Grande do Sul Agencies in Santa Catarina Agencies in Espírito Santo4 6 8 9 9 10 11 12 12 13 14 14 15 16 16 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 22 25 26 26 27 27 28 28 29 30 32 33 34 34 35 36 36 36 37 40 41 42 44 46 47 48 50 51 51 52 53 54 54 55MESSAGE FROM THE STRATEGIC BOARD Cooperation: growth that generates development Ivo Miri Brugnera President Sicredi RS/SC/ES AllianceThe year 2022 can be defined as the year of investments for the member: in processes, in physical structures and also in our employees. With a satisfied and well-trained team in the work environment, we achieve great results. It was the year in which we reinforced the teams in Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, as well as starting activities in Espírito Santo, with the opening of five branches in seven months. There was great growth in the three states and even so, we realize that the teams are more mature and more in tune. One of Sicredi’s biggest differences and values ​​is service. We are close to members, personalize service and provide a differentiated experience. We invest in our employees, improving, humanizing and making them aware of the cooperative’s culture. We had an average of 20 new hires per month. Professionals excited about working in the Sicredi, who have a twinkle in their eye, a thirst for learning and a desire to make things happen. There is no one more or less important: everyone together forms a great team. Furthermore, 2022 was also the best year in terms of new members, with the creation of new agencies and the strengthening of others. And not just in Santa Catarina and Espírito Santo. Agencies in Rio Grande do Sul, which apparently had reached the best level, achieved growth. The legislation itself was improved and the Sicredi adapted its Statute, modernizing itself quickly. There was fantastic growth with the centralization of bureaucracy at the Administrative Headquarters. We are gradually freeing up agencies so that they can focus on serving members better, seeking solutions and meeting their needs. We have to improve technology even further so that we can achieve these objectives even more assertively. I believe it has been a great success, but we dream more. Good service and a vision of simplicity meet the values ​​of the Sicredi brand, which transcends any business we do. If we understand that our employees must have experience of cooperation, we have to start at the bottom, taking this practice to schools, with teachers and students. Thus, the School Cooperative was born and in this social program we are growing a lot. We can say, with this vision of the future, that the program has already produces results. We are moving forward in 2022 and we want more in 2023. Let's expand this process of preparing people for the future. And if they only improve within the family or community, we already win. We believe that investing in the social area is the way to keep the virtuous circle of cooperation alive and this is part of our essence. It means returning part of the results generated with the participation of all associates to the community. We have done this with transfers from the Social Fund, which in 2022 exceeded R$864 thousand in entity projects. May we continue like this, making a difference in people's lives. The year 2022 can be defined as the year of investments for the associate: in processes, in physical structures and also in our employees. With a satisfied and well-trained team in the work environment, we achieve great results. It was the year in which we reinforced the teams in Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, as well as starting activities in Espírito Santo, with the opening of five branches in seven months. There was great growth in the three states and even so, we noticed that the teams are more mature and more in tune. One of Sicredi’s biggest differences and values ​​is service. We are close to members, personalize service and provide a differentiated experience. We invest in our employees, improving, humanizing and 2022 was a year of a lot of work for Sicredi Aliança, but also many achievements. We are very happy to witness the successful expansion to Espírito Santo, the consolidation of operations in Santa Catarina and also the growth in Rio Grande do Sul. And what makes us more motivated and confident that we are on the right path is that we have We offer our members the best proposal, whether in credit or any other service, that provides them with better results. It is a relationship of trust that has generated good fruits on both sides. The size of Sicredi is the sum of the size of our members. If they are strong, we will be strong. Sicredi only grows if everyone grows together. This is the meaning of cooperation and is what drives Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, thanks to the commitment and dedication of its associates, directors, advisors, delegates and collaborators. making them aware of the cooperative’s culture. We had an average of 20 new hires per month. Professionals enthusiastic about working at Sicredi agencies, who have a twinkle in their eye, a thirst for learning and a desire to make things happen. There is no one more or less important: everyone together forms a great team. Furthermore, 2022 was also the best year in terms of new members, with the creation of new agencies and the strengthening of others. And not just in Santa Catarina and Espírito Santo. The agencies in Rio Grande do Sul, which apparently had reached the best level, obtained growth. The legislation itself was improved and Sicredi adapted its Statute, modernizing quickly. There was fantastic growth with the centralization of bureaucracy at the Administrative Headquarters. We are gradually freeing up agencies so that they can focus on serving members better, seeking solutions and meeting their needs. We have to improve technology even further so that we can achieve these objectives even more assertively. I believe it has been a great success, but we dream bigger. Good service and a vision of simplicity meet the values ​​of the Sicredi brand, which transcends any business we do. If we understand that our employees must have experience of cooperation, we have to start at the bottom, taking this practice to schools, with teachers and students. Thus, the School Cooperative was born and in this social program we are growing a lot. We can say, with this vision of the future, that the program is already producing results. We are moving forward in 2022 and we want more in 2023. Let's expand this process of preparing people for the future. And if they only improve within the family or community, we already win. We believe that investing in the social area is the way to keep the virtuous circle of cooperation alive and this is part of our essence. It means returning part of the results generated with the participation of all associates to the community. We have done this with transfers from the Social Fund, which in 2022 exceeded R$864 thousand in entity projects. May we continue like this, making a difference in people's lives. We are close to members, personalize service and provide a differentiated experience. Valmir Luís Menegat Vice-President Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ESMENSAGEM EXECUTIVE BOARD A year of expansion and growth Cristiano Piano Executive Director Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ESThe year 2022 was consolidated as a important milestone in the more than 40-year history of Cooperativa Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES. When analyzing everything that was planned and thought out and everything that was accomplished, we have many reasons to continue with confidence in our work. Without a doubt, overall, it was a successful year, with excellent results - economic and social - for our members. We managed to overcome the adversities imposed by the recovery of the economy (post-pandemic) and the drought in the south of Brazil, improving our performance and efficiency and offering members the solutions they need in terms of products and services. Contrary to traditional banking institutions, we continue to open physical service branches, with the aim of being increasingly closer to our members, offering the best experience, whether physically or digitally. Proof of this are the five new branches opened in Espírito Santo and three in Santa Catarina (increasing to 41 points of service in the three States), in addition to the renovation and remodeling of other units in Rio Grande do Sul. To guarantee the differentiated and personalized service, Sicredi's trademark, we also expanded the employee base, generating 90 new jobs in the three States. On December 31st, our team closed with 446 employees. While we do not neglect physical service, we are also focused on digital transformation, seeking to deliver to the associate an increasingly technological and robust platform. The objective is to make available digitally the entire range offered by physical and in-person service at branches. We continue to believe, as a great cooperative differentiator, in eye to eye, a handshake and qualified advice. However, we cannot fail to pay attention to the practicality that digital channels bring. Sicredi's entire transformation is still underway, but we have made a lot of progress in 2022. Today, the Members can start a service on their cell phone and complete it online or at the branch, meaning you have a 360 view of the demand and the process. If we started 2022 with a solid base of 69,154 members, we ended the year with a growth of 28%, totaling 88,448. There were 19,294 new business owners, individuals and legal entities who believed in the power of cooperation. This increase, in addition to consolidating the Alliance's performance, highlighted us at a national level, with the achievement of 13th position in the ranking of the 108 cooperatives that grew the most in number of members in the Sicredi System. During this period, in a clear demonstration of the solidity and confidence in the cooperative, we increased R$885 million in deposits, one of the best performances of Central Sul Sicredi. Our credit portfolio grew 26%, exceeding R$2 billion. With strong and solid foundations, motivated by the spirit of growth and expansion, we brought the oldest cooperative credit system to Espírito Santo from Brazil. Our first year was very successful, with the opening of five branches and the increase of two thousand new associates. It was an excellent reception and welcome from the people of Espírito Santo, which leaves us optimistic for the coming years of operations. In Santa Catarina, we increased the number of branches and adapted facilities to existing structures, opening up opportunities for growth. Anyway, the year 2022 leaves us with many learnings and also encourages us to look ahead forward with optimism. May we continue with our close, human and direct relationship, with a true interest in solving the problems of people and companies that believe in the strength of cooperativism. The year 2022 was consolidated as an important milestone in the trajectory of more than 40 years of history of the Cooperativa Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES. When analyzing everything that was planned and thought out and everything that was accomplished, we have many reasons to continue with confidence in our work. Without a doubt, from Overall, it was a successful year, with excellent results - economic and social - for our members. We managed to overcome the adversities imposed by the recovery of the economy (post-pandemic) and the drought in the South of Brazil, improving our performance and efficiency and offering members the solutions they need in terms of products and services. Contrary to traditional banking institutions, we continue to open physical service branches, with the aim of increasingly being closer to our members, offering the best experience, whether physically or digitally. Proof of this are the five new branches opened in Espírito Santo and three in Santa Catarina (expanding to 41 service points in the three states), in addition to the renovation and remodeling of other units in Rio Grande do Sul. To guarantee differentiated and personalized service, Sicredi's trademark, we also expanded the employee base, generating 90 new jobs in the three states. On December 31st, our team closed with 446 employees. While we do not neglect physical service, we are also focused on digital transformation, seeking to deliver an increasingly technological and robust platform to members. The objective is to make available digitally the entire range offered by physical and in-person service at branches. We continue to believe, as a great cooperative differentiator, in eye to eye, handshake and qualified advice. However, we cannot fail to pay attention to the practicality that digital channels bring. All of Sicredi's transformation is still underway, but we have made a lot of progress in 2022. Today, members can start a service on their cell phone and complete it online or at the branch, meaning you have a 360 view of the demand and the process. If we started 2022 with a solid base of 69,154 members, we ended the year with a growth of 28%, totaling 88,448. They were 19,294 new business owners, individuals and legal entities who believed in the power of cooperation. This increase, in addition to consolidating the Alliance's operations, highlighted us at a national level, with us reaching 13th position in the ranking of the 108 cooperatives that grew the most in terms of membership in the Sicredi System. During this period, in a clear demonstration of the solidity and confidence in the cooperative, we increased R$885 million in deposits, one of the best performances of Central Sul Sicredi. Our credit portfolio grew 26%, exceeding R$2 billion. With strong and solid foundations, motivated by the spirit of growth and expansion, we brought the oldest cooperative credit system in Brazil to Espírito Santo. Our first year was very successful, with the opening of five branches and the increase of two thousand new associates. It was an excellent reception and welcome from the people of Espírito Santo, which leaves us optimistic for the coming years of operations. Already in Santa Catarina, we expanded the number of branches and adapted facilities to existing structures, opening up opportunities for growth. Ultimately, the year 2022 leaves us with many lessons to learn and also encourages us to look ahead with optimism. May we continue with our close, human and direct relationship, with a true interest in solving the problems of people and companies that believe in the strength of cooperativism. If we start 2022 with a solid base of 69,154 members, we close the year with a growth of 28%, totaling 88,448. 120 years of CooperativesThe pioneers of Rochdale120 years of Sicr ediCooper activism: In 2022, Sicredi completed 120 years of history. A journey that was closely connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for members and communities where we are present. Our origins happened with the founding of the first Credit Cooperative in Brazil, in 1902, by the Jesuit priest Theodor Amstad and a group of German immigrants, small landowners and rural workers from Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul. Theodor Amstad was born in Switzerland in 1851. From a young age, he dedicated himself to community activities in Germany, England and the Netherlands, learning about the importance of cooperative actions for the development of local workers. In Nova Petrópolis (RS), the priest joined 20 local associates and, together, they put this collective vision into practice to build a better future. They started a cooperative venture that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country, in addition to the first Central uniting Praça Theodor Amstad in Nova Petrópolis - RS Cooperativas, still in the first decades of the 20th century. Over the years, the model was taken forward, overcame the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside it arrived in the cities, maintaining through time the purpose of adding income through investments and resources shared, with equal participation and benefits for all associates and promotion of quality of life. Modern cooperativism emerged in the 19th century, in England, with a group of workers who sought to improve their lives and collective prosperity, within a context of the advance of the Industrial Revolution in the country. This scenario brought devastating social impacts to the urban population, such as hunger, poverty, long working hours and child labor. Compared to difficulties they faced in purchasing quality food and essential items at fair prices, in 1844, 28 weavers and other artisans got together and founded the Rochdale Quitable Pioneers Society Limited. Together, they created an alternative that , through cooperation and union of efforts, provided a fairer economic and social model. Each member contributed one pound, an initial investment that helped open the doors of a cooperative warehouse, starting a business completely outside the standards of the time, without employees and bosses, where responsibilities and results were divided equally. The pioneers of Rochdale marked the history of Cooperatives for understanding that values ​​and principles are necessary for an enterprise to grow and maintain its purpose over the years, generating value for everyone involved.120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM 1902 1971 1995 2018 20221964 1988 2008 2020New Federal Constitution establishes regulatory conditions favorable to credit cooperatives, giving the possibility of achieving the operational autonomy desired since the origins of the movement in Brazil. Timeline Learn about some relevant historical facts from our history. Constitution of the first credit cooperative in Latin America, in Nova Petrópolis/RS, currently Sicredi Pioneira RS. Law No. 5,764/71 was sanctioned, which defined the legal regime for cooperative societies. Constitution of Bansicredi, the first private cooperative bank in Brazil, responsible for establishing financial autonomy for cooperatives and allowing efficient access to the financial market and financing programs. Completion of the migration process of cooperatives and Central Sicredi North/Northeast. Migration has become a milestone in our history based on the systemic integration of different cultures. Sicredi celebrates 120 years of history in credit cooperatives.Reformulation of the Financial System National Law No. 4,595/64, which imposed regulatory restrictions on the operation of credit cooperatives. Constitution of Sicredi Participações - SicrediPar. Sicredi becomes a Member of the UN Global Compact. Find out more about our history in the publication A Trajetória do Sicr edi www .sicredi.com.br /trajetoria/Born with the Pioneers of Rochdale and who govern cooperatives around the world, they have been reformulated over the years to meet the demands society of each era. Your last The update was carried out by ACI (International Cooperative Alliance) in 1995. At Sicredi, they direct and support us in generating positive impact: Cooperatives are voluntary organizations, open to everyone. While other financial institutions, for example, close agreements with large companies to offer a salary account on a mandatory basis for their employees, in a credit union membership happens differently. After the presentation on how cooperativism works, everyone can freely choose to join or not. 1Free and voluntary membership Education, training and information for members is the most solid way to generate prosperity. Based on this principle, cooperatives promote various education programs in the communities where they are present. Examples of this action are the School Cooperatives Program, the A União Faz a Vida Program, the Crescer e Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis Program, which form citizens cooperatives that engage in the development of their community.5Education, training and information All members have the same voting power, with the same weight in assemblies. In this way, everyone decides together on the direction of the cooperative, to deal with issues such as the election of leaders, remuneration or even the amounts invested in social programs. 2Democratic management Cooperatives work together to strengthen the cooperative movement. Sicredi is a living example of this, built by the union of several cooperatives, which grow together in a win-win model, bringing prosperity to their members.6Intercooperation Members participate in the economic result of the cooperative, that is, the result of operations generated by the money invested by members returns to your pocket, as decided democratically in the assemblies.3Economic participation of members Credit cooperatives can be located in regions with several opportunities for social improvements, where traditional financial institutions do not see the possibility of profit. In this way, each product or financial service that members contract in the cooperative brings a result to the community, generating income, jobs and growth in the region.7Interest in the community The cooperative is completely autonomous and independent in its decisions, and can be controlled only by its associates, in a democratic management model.4Autonomy and independenceThe seven principles of cooperativismOur cooperative essence Our business model creates a virtuous cycle that encourages investment in the cooperative and the use of financial solutions that promote member businesses, community growth and the development of people in the region. Furthermore, through our non-financial solutions, we expand the positive impact beyond associates, also improving living conditions in communities. Like this, We can say that cooperativism constitutes a model for generating differentiated value, having at its roots the DNA of sustainability. A phrase by Father Theodor Amstad, precursor of credit cooperativism in Brazil, summarizes this view: As can be seen, solidarity and responsibility towards society — two of the fundamental values ​​of cooperativism — were already present from the first days of the movement in Brazil. Brazil. We are very proud of the path we have taken and the trajectory that we have built over these years. Knowing our history inspires us to continue taking new steps and generating impact for society, through the essence of cooperativism. “Not just working for myself, but for others or for the common good” Virtuous cycle of cooperativism By exercising our active role as associates, acting as business owners, we make everyone's financial lives more cooperative and prosperous. While some invest and save, others use this amount in form of credit to make your dreams come true, buy, produce and undertake. In this way, money circulates, moves the local economy and is transformed into the supply of jobs, products and services, income generation and more opportunities. Our Cooperative Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ESNOSSA COOPERATIVA Based on the values ​​of Sicredi's cooperativism, with 120 years of history in Brazil, Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES continues its trajectory focused on transforming the lives of its associates and communities where it operates. Founded on August 31, 1981, it is part of the 111 cooperatives that are part of the Sicredi System, with more than 2,400 branches and more than 35,000 employees. In total, there are more than 6 million associates who decide together on the direction of the business and form a support network that seeks responsible and sustainable financial solutions. In 2022, Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES completed 41 years of history, following the purpose of transforming the lives of its members through cooperativism and sustainability, fostering the virtuous circle of cooperation, stimulating the generation of jobs, income and improved quality of life. Today, there are more than 88,448 members, 446 employees in 41 agencies. The coverage area includes 11 municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul, 17 in Santa Catarina and another 19 in Espírito Santo. The administrative headquarters are located in Marau (RS), Florianópolis (SC) and Guarapari (ES). In 2022, the cooperative consolidated its expansion to Espírito Santo with the opening of five branches in the municipalities of Guarapari, Piúma, Alfredo Chaves, Domingos Martins and Anchieta. It was another important step in expanding the pillars of cooperativism, guided by community unity and the social and economic well-being of members. More than 40 years dedicated to making a difference in the community projects through the Social Fund in 2022More than 88 thousand members 41 agencies in Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Espírito Santo 446 employees 3 states 11 RS Coverage in municipalities in 17 SC municipalities in 19 ES municipalities in R$ 3.13 billion in assets R$ 308 million in equity 31% growth in deposit portfolio 26% increase in credit portfolio R$ 239 .3 million balance in consortium portfolio R$ 864 thousand 89 transferred toOur cooperative in numbersOUR COOPERATIVE VIRTUAL CORE ASSEMBLY Board of Directors Supervisory Board On March 16, Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES brought together its members for the 2022 Core Assembly. The meeting was led by the Alliance's management and discussed important topics for business sustainability, such as accountability and allocation of results. “It is a fundamental moment for the member to stay on top of the cooperative’s numbers, as well as define how the financial results will be distributed or invested. In this way, together we build a more prosperous society", highlighted the president of cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera. The matters presented and put to a vote were about the rendering of accounts for the 2021 financial year, management report, balance sheet for the two semesters, statement of surpluses, audit report and that of the Supervisory Board. The destination of surpluses and approval were also addressed Counselor Geraldo Soccol Counselor Mauri Fiorentini Counselor Maurício Tomasi Leocir L. Dalamaria Counselor Delaine Oberger Counselor Alexandre Bertollo Advisor Ramon S. Kretzer Advisor João A. de Oliveira Advisor Cristiano Corato Advisor Advisor Nelso Vedana Core Assembly was broadcast in Marau (RS) Advisor Neri Müller AdvisorBetânia M. Soccol Vera N. Bürgel AdvisorRafael Garbin AdvisorAdemar Pasqualotto Advisor to the Belonging regulations, as well as well as other topics of interest to the membership. The same themes were ratified during the Ordinary General Assembly (AGO), held on the 18th of April, in digital format, with the presence of core delegates. COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT ALIANÇA RS/SC/ES - SICREDI ALIANÇA RS/SC/EQUITY BALANCE - (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) STATEMENT OF SURPLUS OR LOSS AVAILABILITY FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Interfinancial applications of liquidity Securities securities Financial centralization Interbank relations Credit operations Other financial assets PROVISIONS FOR LOSS EXPECTATIONS ASSOCIATED WITH CREDIT RISK OTHER ASSETS INTANGIBLE FIXED USE TOTAL ASSET INCOME AND REVENUES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION Credit operations Result from bonds and securities Result from compulsory investments Income from intercooperative deposits EXPENDITURE AND EXPENSES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION Market funding operations Operations of loans and onlending Provisions for expected losses associated with credit risk RESULT GROSS FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION OTHER INCOME AND REVENUE/OPERATING EXPENSES AND EXPENSES Income and income from service provision Income from bank fees Personnel expenses and expenses Other administrative expenses and expenses Tax expenditures and expenses Other operating income and income Other operating expenses and expenses OPERATING RESULT RESULT BEFORE TAXATION ON PROFIT INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Provision for Income Tax Provision for Social Contribution SHARES IN THE LEFTOVERS RESULTS OF THE YEAR BEFORE ALLOCATIONSACTIVE DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS DESCRIPTION OF ACCOUNTS 3,134,124 7,218 3,106,561 242,855 926,840 134,714 64 1,695,000 107. 088 (67,565) 8,442 75,596 3,872 3,134,124 2,131,921 5,997 2,097,627 65,711 377,851 268,033 318 1,315,116 70,598 (40,920) 5,706 59,723 3,788 2,131,92131/12/2022 12/31/2021 07/01/2022 a 12/31/2022 TOTAL01/01/2022 to 12/31/2022 TOTAL01.01.2021 to 31.12.2021 TOTAL LIABILITIES DEPOSITS Demand deposits Savings deposits Interbank deposits Time deposits OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Interbank relations Obligations for transfers Other financial liabilities PROVISIONS FOR CIVIL, TAX AND LABOR RISKS OTHER EQUITY LIABILITIES NIO NET SHARE CAPITAL RESERVES OF SURPLUS OR TOTAL ACCUMULATED LOSSES OF LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY LIABILITIES ACCOUNTS DESCRIPTION 2,825,917 1,983,792 406,363 806 233,053 1,343,570 704,151 647,522 443 56,186 312 137,662 308,207 85,216 212,057 10,934 3,134,124 1,890,630 1,306,284 363,309 - 70,373 872,602 490,711 482,612 1,374 6,725 404 93,231 241,291 68,054 161,102 12 .135 2.131 204,509 12.592  (19.821)    39.001      39.001   170   102   68  (4.006)  35.165 351.833   236.717  75.356  142  39.618   (217.451)   (146.024)  (27.437)  (43.990)   134.382    (56.639)     54.586  10.340  (52.175)  (51.996)  (405)  19.386  (36.375)     77.743       77.743    -  -  -   (8.350)   69.393    164.256   135.050  18.333  52  10.821   (75.245)  (36.738)  (14.957)  (23.550)   89.011   (34.730)     45.356  9.138  (37.493)  (37.232)  (342)  8.909  (23.066)     54.281       54.281    -  -  - (5,739) 48.54231/12/2022 12/31/2021Sustainability StrategyAt Sicredi, we operate in line with the main global concepts relating to Sustainable Development, generating value for our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our incorporation we have kept a close eye on our impacts. This concern was materialized in a robust sustainability strategy, which incorporates the best management practices on the theme and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. The expression ESG (environmental, social and governance) seeks to demonstrate that the long-term survival of organizations depends on them also generating value in these three aspects. Our strategy incorporates the “ESG vision” of the market, understanding it as the management itself for the sustainability of the business. Sicredi's three essential strategic guidelines, which direct everything that we do (Mission, Vision and Values) describe the way we conduct our business and guide our development in practice. Based on our standards, we build the systemic documents and policies that guide our strategy, decision-making, operations and conduct. The Sustainability Policy establishes the principles and guidelines that guide decision-making in all areas of the business and in the relationship with interested parties, with the aim of expanding the our positive impact and reduce our adverse impact. To guide our sustainable development strategy, we established our sustainability drivers and focal themes. We have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes, which are Sicredi's material themes, that is, the themes most relevant to Sicredi's sustainability. Spread cooperativism and sustainability Strengthen our governance model Promote inclusion and diversity Promote financial educationFoster the local economy Promote financial inclusion Promote the development of people Contribute to the development of communities Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Ensure integrated risk management Promote eco-efficient management Work with suppliers and management partners sustainable » » » » » » »To direct our Sustainability Strategy and support us in the evolution of sustainability guidelines sustainability, we rely on the Sustainable Development Framework. The Reference is the basis for Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, providing indicators that allow us to measure our sustainability performance at national, regional and local levels. Monitoring these results can help us identify points where we have the opportunity to advance the Sustainability agenda. Our sustainability strategy is reinforced through our external commitments, which connect our guidelines on the topic to the main global initiatives in the sustainable development agenda. Since 2020, we have been members of the Global Compact, a voluntary action of the United Nations (UN), which provides principles, guidelines, information and tools to promote Sustainable Development and Citizenship. By joining the Global Compact we also assume the responsibility of contributing to the 17 Development Goals Sustainable, outlined by the UN to engage organizations in goals such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources by 2030. Commitment to the Global Compact and the SDGs Sustainability Drivers Relationship and Cooperation Activism Local Development Responsible solutions Social Economic Environmental Governance Sustainability Pillars Governance Sustainability CommitteesSustainable Development Benchmark Instrument BUILDING TOGETHER A MORE PROSPEROUS SOCIETYHighlights 2022EXPANSION Year marked by expansion: five branches in Espírito Santo The year 2022 was marked by the expansion of credit cooperatives in Espírito Santo. Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES opened five branches on Espírito Santo soil, covering the municipalities of Guarapari, Piúma, Alfredo Chaves, Domingos Martins and Anchieta. The cooperative, which had announced the expansion in 2021, chose the region to promote the social development of communities, from an economic and social point of view. According to the president of Sicredi Aliança, Ivo Miri Brugnera, this expansion movement is For Ivo Miri Brugnera, president of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, this expansion is historic for the cooperative “Our arrival aims to contribute to evolution, prosperity and quality of life” history for the cooperative. “The year 2022 was one of great joy, as we shared with these regions the strength of cooperatives credit, which has been promoting the development of the communities where it operates for 120 years. Our arrival aims to contribute to evolution, prosperity and quality of life”, he highlights. The first branch was opened in Guarapari on May 27th. Located at Avenida Padre José de Anchieta, 3961, in the Muquiçaba neighborhood, it has 12 employees, under the management of Samuel Rossini. The building has a structure of 470 square meters, which also houses the Regional Superintendence (Sureg). see the video by scanning the QR code The third agency in the State opened its doors in Alfredo Chaves, on the banks of the Benevente River, 81 km from the capital of Espírito Santo, Vitória. During an event held on October 7th, on Avenida Alcy Cavalini, no number, in Condomínio Vilaggio Monte Verde, the seven employees were presented, whose manager is Josias Bauer. See the video by scanning the QR code. The municipality of Piúma, which is 93 kilometers from the capital Vitória and 36 kilometers from Guarapari, gained its first agency on September 6th. The structure, located at Avenida Izaias Scherrer, number 30, has more than 300 square meters. In total, there are seven employees, under the management of Daiene Marinho. See the video by scanning the QR codeEXPANSION All inaugurations were marked by the presence of the community, municipal and state authorities and representatives of public bodies and those related to cooperatives. “We are very happy to complete planning for 2022 in Espírito Santo, a state that welcomed us with open arms. Our goal is to continue contributing daily to the development of the communities where we are present. More than offering financial solutions, we believe that, by doing things together, we increase opportunities and build solid and sustainable ties”, highlighted the Regional Development Manager (GRD/ES), Junior Augusto Lenhardt. The Domingos Martins agency was opened in November 18th on Avenida Presidente Vargas, 571, Edifício João de Freitas, in the city center. The modern facilities have seven employees, in addition to manager José Roberto Raasch, and a built area of ​​447 square meters. Watch the video by scanning the QR code The fifth and final branch began operating on December 16th in Anchieta, managed by Aline da Silveira Campos Sales. The unit, which has seven employees, is located at Avenida do Sol, 2387, and has 350 square meters of building area. Watch the video by scanning the QR code “We are very happy to complete planning for 2022 in Espírito Santo, a state that welcomed us with open arms. More than offering ﬁnancial solutions, we believe that, by doing things together, we increase opportunities and build solid and sustainable ties” Cooperative closes year with 22 agencies on Santa Catarina soil Florianópolis (SC) – About to complete 10 years of operation on Santa Catarina soil, the Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES celebrated the consolidation of its operations in the State with the opening of its 22nd branch, in the Pagani neighborhood, in Palhoça, and the reopening of the Florianópolis Centro branch (in the same building that now houses the Regional Superintendence office - Sureg). The events took place on December 19th, with the presence of directors, advisors, employees, associates and guests. “These new structures demonstrate the growth of the cooperative, aligned with the purpose of valuing the relationship with members and offer financial solutions to add income and improve the quality of life of members and the community”, highlighted the president of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, Ivo Miri Brugnera. Florianópolis Center Branch now houses the Superintendence office Regional - SuregSee the video by scanning the QR code Reopened at Avenida Jerônimo Coelho, 280, the Florianópolis Centro branch has 480 square meters and a private service area, meeting room, in addition to café and web spaces. In the same building, Sureg's new headquarters occupies the first floor and mezzanine, with 570 square meters and space for relationships, coworking, training room for 40 people, meeting rooms and offices. “This new agency strengthens our operations in Florianópolis as it complements the physical model, where the member carries out all their transactions digitally and, if necessary, can request face-to-face advice from a specialist, as well as, use the agency's web space, in a structure designed especially for this”, emphasized the Regional Development (GRD) manager, Gabriel Puntel.EXPANSION Rancho Queimado It was inaugurated on March 4th, in the municipality of Rancho Queimado (SC), another agency of the Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES cooperative. The ceremony brought together employees, authorities and guests, who watched the unveiling of the inaugural ribbon in a ceremony led by the president of the cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera. Located in the city center, the Rancho Queimado branch has 265 square meters and was part of the Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES expansion plan on Santa Catarina soil. Fourth agency in São José The municipality of São José (SC) gained another Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES agency. The São José Areias Agency was inaugurated on April 29, with a ribbon ending and the presence of employees (photo), authorities and guests, including the president of the cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera, the Executive director, Cristiano Piano, the regional manager Gabriel Puntel, the vice-mayor Michel Schelemper and the councilor Jair Santinho da Costa. The new unit is located at Rua da Independência, number 500, in room B500, in Bairro Areias, with more than 220 square meters of built area. The new Palhoça agency, in the Pagani neighborhood, has 200 square meters and a private service area, meeting room and coworking space, located on Avenida Atílio Pedro Pagani, corner with 7 Cinco Street. The inauguration event was attended by Mayor Eduardo Freccia. “Our role is to provide a welcoming environment for new businesses and people. Therefore, our desire for success is for Sicredi to grow together with the municipality”, he highlighted. Watch the video by scanning the QR code Watch the video by scanning the QR code Watch the video by scanning the QR codeHIGHlights 2022 Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES has a new Director of Operations Sicredi is among the most popular brands reminded of SCA Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, active in 47 municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Espírito Santo, announced a new Director of Operations at the beginning of September. After having his name approved by the Central Bank, administrator Andrigo Vanz took up the position replacing Lúcia Maria dos Santos Magnan, who retired after more than 40 years of service to the cooperative. The new Operations Director is 37 years old and started his career at Sicredi Aliança in 2005, under the coordination of Lúcia, in the role of administrative assistant, providing insurance support. From then on, she pursued a career working in commercial/rural credit support, promoting payment methods, managing a membership portfolio and finally providing regional business support. Sicredi received Top of Mind, recognition from NSC, in partnership with Instituto Mapa, for the brands most remembered by people from Santa Catarina. The cooperative financial institution ranked 1st in Search Top Population in the category called state credit union. The survey, which considers the first company that comes to the interviewee's mind, received 1,000 responses from residents of the 30 most populous cities in the State. The awards ceremony for the 27th edition of Top of Mind took place on August 25th. “This is the first year that Sicredi takes the lead in this category. Being the first name in the memory of the people of Santa Catarina is an important achievement because, as a cooperative financial institution that seeks to always be close to its members, the Top of Mind recognition shows us that we are on the path to increasingly work in Andrigo Vanz took over as Director of Operations Sicredi representatives in presenting the award in favor of local development. This reinforces our commitment to improving the quality of life of members and society in general”, highlighted the president of Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, Márcio Port.HIGHLIGHTS 2022 Visit from Sicredi União Metropolitana A day marked by intercooperation. This is how September 9th can be defined, in Marau (RS). Around 50 employees from Sicredi União Metropolitana RS, based in Porto Alegre, visited the administrative headquarters of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES. Throughout the morning, visitors had the opportunity to learn more about Sicredi Aliança, with emphasis on the cooperative's expansion process to Santa Catarina and Holy Spirit. The group was received in the auditorium, with a presentation of the Alliance's numbers and planning, and continued to visit the facilities and administrative sectors on the 3rd floor, ending with group meetings for interaction and exchanging experiences with Sicredi União Metropolitana Vice- governor Ranolfo Vieira Junior visits the new headquarters of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES The vice-governor of Rio Grande do Sul and secretary of Public Security, Ranolfo Vieira Junior, visited the new administrative headquarters of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, in Marau (RS), on January 12th. Accompanied by authorities, including the mayor of Marau, Iura Kurtz, and the state deputy, Vilmar Zanchin, he was welcomed by the president of Sicredi Aliança, Ivo Miri Brugnera, by vice-president Valmir Luís Menegat, by the Director of Operations, Lúcia Maria Magnan, by advisor João Antonio de Oliveira, in addition to collaborators. During the visit, Ranolfo got to know the structure of the cooperative, covering the third floor, which houses the workstations of 70 employees and chat and coffee spaces; in addition to the fourth floor, intended for the Council and Training Rooms, as well as community lounges. Vice-governor visited Administrative headquarters “I left Marau amazed by everything I saw: the best and most modern police station in Rio Grande do Sul and Sicredi's excellent facilities, its work history and everything this building represents”, highlighted Ranolfo. experience between the areas. “It was a joy to welcome them and have this exchange of experience focused on strengthening credit cooperatives. It is intercooperation in its essence, helping us to always improve”, highlighted Ivo Miri Brugnera. Committees from Espírito Santo visit Rio Grande do Sul On the afternoon of June 2nd, leaders of the Cooperativa Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES welcomed, at Administrative Headquarters of Marau (RS), a delegation from Espírito Santo, with representatives from the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives of Espírito Santo (OCB-ES) and the Brazilian Micro and Small Business Support Service (Sebrae/ES). The group, which was on a tour of the State, was received by the president of Sicredi Aliança, Ivo Miri Brugnera, and by the Executive Director, Cristiano Piano.Representatives of OCB-ES and Sebrae/ES Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES Committee from Espírito SantoIn the month of July, a delegation from Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES from Espírito Santo visited the State. The objective of the trip was to visit Nova Petrópolis, the National Capital of Cooperatives, and the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS), in Porto Alegre. The itinerary for the visit to Rio Grande do Sul began on July 25th, in Marau, at the Administrative Headquarters of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES.HIGHLIGHTS 2022 Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES book highlights Cooperation and Prosperity With the launch of book Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES - A History of Cooperation - A History of Prosperity, on July 25th, the Cooperative, headquartered in Marau (RS) and operating in 47 municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Espírito Santo, ended the celebrations celebrating its 40th anniversary, which took place on August 31st, 2021. The event also marked the inauguration of the library at the administrative headquarters and the Lúcia Maria dos Santos Magnan Memorial. Signed by the writer from Marau, Roberta Bassani Federizzi, and by the then Director of Operations at Sicredi Aliança, Lúcia Maria dos Santos Magnan, the publication presents the main events in the cooperative's history, with images and testimonies from people who were and are part of the institution. The president of the cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera, reiterates at the opening of the book the collective construction of the cooperative, the result of the union of many efforts. "Today, as we celebrate our 40 years of history, we have each Book launch was on July 25th at the headquarters of Cooperativa Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES instead more certain that only together, with everyone's strength and dedication, can we overcome difficulties and make a difference. After 40 years of history, we continue with our eyes focused on the future, based on cooperation and interest in building a better world”, highlighted the president. “In this book, this entire story is highlighted, reporting the facts and themes that were and are important for the entire society that is in some way impacted by the existence of Sicredi Alliance. And for those who had the opportunity to participate in this journey, the feeling is of belonging”, highlighted Lúcia Maria dos Santos Magnan. “After 40 years of history, we continue with our eyes focused on the future, based on cooperation and interest in building a better world.” Preface – The text that opens the publication is signed by the former Minister of Agriculture, president of the Council Consultant for the Brazilian Animal Protein Association (ABPA), Francisco Sérgio Turra. In the Preface, he recalls historical moments of credit cooperatives in Brazil and the importance of Sicredi for Marau and the region. “Much more than the celebration of 40 years of existence are the stories of thousands of men and women who are grateful for the formula of pursuing the goals of achievement and prosperity together,” he concluded. ROBERTA BASSANI FEDERIZZI, born in Marau (RS), has a degree in Art Education, a postgraduate degree in Art Education; Art therapy; and Education and Health; Master in Education and PhD in Literature. She was an Art and Italian Language teacher for around 30 years in the state and municipal public schools of Marau; and professor of Higher Education at FABE-Marau, CESF-Farroupilha and UPF. She has been a researcher for over 20 years, focusing on Italian culture. She has published historical, commemorative, romance and children's books. Currently, she works as a researcher and writer. In addition to the book Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES - A History of Cooperation - A History of Prosperidade, is the author of other works, such as the novel Farfalla, released in May 2022. LÚCIA MARIA DOS SANTOS MAGNAN, currently Postgraduate from Fundação Getúlio Vargas (FVG) in Business Management and Strategic Management of People and Business, began her career in cooperativism in 1977, when she was selected to be secretary at Cooperativa Agrícola Mista Marauense Ltda. In the same year, she entered the Faculty of Arts at the University of Passo Fundo (UPF). In 1981, she participated from the meeting to establish the Marau Rural Credit Cooperative With 165 pages, the book covers, in six chapters, the most important moments of the four decades: Cooperatives: Historical Roots; Ennobling Sicredi’s Cooperative Brand; A Beautiful Story to Know and Tell; Scope of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES; Collaborators: Mola Propulsora; and Thinking about Social. The publication, with a circulation of 1 thousand copies and free and directed, it was produced by Lenari Editores Associados. MEET THE WRITERS: FIND OUT MORE: Authors of the book participated in an autograph sessionAccess the book by scanning the QR code Ltda., today Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, acting as secretary for the work. From there, you will learn more about the legislation and processes involved in the operation of credit cooperatives, following the main events and transformations in the sector. In this period, participated in study trips to learn about cooperativism around the world and in renowned schools, such as: ADG - Akademie Deutscher Genossenschaften in Germany - HEC Montreal, Canada and at the University of Cambridge, in England. Relationships and CooperativismMore than 1,400 members attend Round Business A success! This can be summarized as the two Business Rounds on Consortiums, carried out by the Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES Credit Cooperative in the municipalities of Marau and Casca, on the 29th and 30th of November. With the participation of more than 1,400 members, the events were attended by the president of the cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera, and the Executive director, Cristiano Piano. “What a joy to be together again, promoting alternatives for the growth of our members, the true owners of the business, and promoting the virtuous circle of cooperativism”, highlighted the president. The events, which were attended by members from all cooperative agencies in Rio Grande do Sul, exceeded all expectations, especially in relation to participation, demonstrating the interest of members in the topic. Business Roundtable on Consortiums also attracted many members in CascaEvent in Marau was attended by a large number of members and exceeded all expectations “What a joy to be together again promoting alternatives for the growth of our members, the true owners of business.”RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM Lecture brings together members in Seraﬁna Corrêa Economic Scenario and Perspectives was the theme of the lecture that the Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES Credit Cooperative promoted on August 25th, in Seraﬁna Corrêa. The event, held in partnership with the Commercial, Industrial and Services Association of Serafina Corrêa (Acisco), was open to the Municipalities of Camargo and São Domingos do Sul gain chimarródromos Inspired by the climate of integration and celebration of the Week Farroupilha, Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES inaugurated, in September, two chimarródromos. On September 15th, the municipality of São Domingos do Sul received the structure, which now provides the community with free filtered water, cold or hot, for people and animals, next to Praça Monsenhor João Benvegnú, in the city center. On September 25th, the community in the municipality of Camargo received a chimarródromo, installed in Praça Doze de Maio, in the city center. "It is a present for the entire community and a form of recognition of the importance of these municipalities for our cooperative”, highlighted president Ivo Miri Brugnera.Inauguration in São Domingos do Sul Inauguration in CamargoAssociates attended the lecture by Sicredi's senior economist, João Ricardo Moreira, community and took place at the Gaúcho Social and Cultural Club. The speaker was Sicredi's senior economist, João Ricardo Moreira, graduated from Universidade Federal Fluminense (UFF) and master's degree in Applied Economics from the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (Ufrgs).More than R$ 1 million distributed in the Sicredi Award Winning Anniversary The last six winners in the draw for the Sicredi Alliance Winning Anniversary RS/SC campaign were announced on November 6th. /ES, held from December 1, 2021 to November 15, 2022. Three members of the cooperative in Rio Grande do Sul, awarded savings of R$10,000, R$50,000 and R$100,000. Rodrigo Carraro, from Vila Maria, Anelise Meneguzzi Filippi, from Marau, and Kauã Baggio Zatti, from Serafina Corrêa, were received by the president of the cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera, at the Administrative Headquarters. In Santa Catarina, deliveries to Alejandro Diez and Eduarda de Mello Damasceno, from Garopaba, and Valdinerio de Moraes, from Paulo Lopes, took place at agencies. Throughout the year, there were R$1,040,000.00 in prizes, divided among 240 Sicredi members and savers. According to the Investment Advisor at Sicredi Aliança, João Paulo Mior, the campaign was a success. “We evaluate the promotion in general as super productive. We were able to further strengthen the support pillars of our cooperative and ensure the financial health of our members, with the promotion and Lucky winners from RS received prizes in Marau Lucky winners from SC received prizes at their agencies, instigating the formation of savings, combined with financial education. It was, historically, the longest campaign ever launched on the system Sicredi”, he highlights. Also according to Mior, more than 67 thousand members and savers participated in the promotion launched in December 2021 in the 35 agencies involved. All of them had members selected during the three draws carried out. The promotion was valid for members and savers of the cooperative's branches in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina, being considered the largest ever carried out at Sicredi. The first draw of the promotion took place on April 2nd, the second May 11th and October 13th, all through the Federal Lottery. 240 members were covered, with Sicredi savings worth R$3,000 each. More than 67 thousand members and savers participated in the promotion launched in December 2021 in the 35 agencies involved. Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES included two members from Rio Grande do Sul in 2022 with the Life Insurance draws, carried out in partnership with Icatu. In Nicolau Vergueiro, farmer Dirceu Müller, aged 67, received on the day October 25th, symbolically, a prize worth R$ 25,077.30. In Marau, the recipient was Ari Carlos Dagustin, a member for 28 years, resident of the São Braz community. The symbolic delivery of the amount of R$ 36,663.86 took place on December 19, at the Sicredi Marau Sul branch. With its financial performance achieved in 2021, Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES returned to its more than 69 thousand members the total amount of more of R$ 9.5 million, which was approved during the Ordinary General Assembly (AGO), held on April 18th. On April 29th, the Cooperative credited more than R$ 7.2 million to a savings account relating to Sicredi's participation, delivering Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES Life Insurance premiums and distributing more than R$ 9.5 million to members. farmer Dirceu Müller, 67 years old, received the prize worth R$ 25,077.30 Ari Carlos Dagustin, a member for 28 years, received the amount of R$ 36,663.86 membership in the previous year, according to the use of products and services of the cooperative. Of the total, 50% is deposited in the Share Capital and 50% in a Savings Account. In December 2021, the cooperative had already paid interest on capital in the order of R$ 2.3 million.Vila Maria - RSTo actively include our partners in cooperativism, the Crescer Program promotes training with the aim of explaining our business model and the fundamental role of the associate in this system. The idea is to create space for the training of new leaders in the institution. In 2022, Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES promoted 94 classes of the Crescer Program, with the training of 1,715 members, which added up to a 193.7% increase compared to 2021.Programa Crescer Pagani - SC Anchieta - ESFabiana Paulo Gomes de Mendonça is a lawyer and businesswoman and is 38 years old. A resident of Anchieta (ES), she is a partner-owner of Gesp - Sistema de Monitoramento, a company associated with Cooperativa Sicredi Aliança since May 2022, and which operates throughout the Southern Region of Espírito Santo, with bases in Guarapari, Anchieta and Cachoeiro de Itapemirim. Already consolidated within its area of ​​activity, the company began its activities informally in 1999. Even with a short time in operation, in 2002, it already managed to reach a large share of the market. “We grew in an organized way until we created a strong and solid brand in the security segment that continues to this day”, highlights Fabiana. Gesp is one of the legal entities that joined Sicredi when the cooperative arrived in Espírito Holy. “We bet on this partnership because we understand that through the cooperative we extend our relationship network and thus strengthen our area of ​​activity with circulation and financial movement between members with the essence of the cooperative, promoting the common good”, highlights Fabiana. At Balneário de Meaípe, in Guarapari (ES), in addition to the natural beauty, it is possible to find many gastronomic delights, such as the traditional moqueca from Espírito Santo at Cantinho do Curuca. O establishment, a national reference in typical gastronomy, has already been operating for 40 years and since March 2022, has become a Sicredi member. The restaurant's moqueca, served in traditional clay pots, has already been voted the best in Brazil. Furthermore, the establishment has already been awarded as the best food in Espírito Santo in the country. “Our main objective is to provide our friends with feelings of joy in an environment that reflects exactly the spirit that permeates our culture”, highlighted Jailton Nascimento, Curuca, who gives the name and, together with his family, manages the restaurant. Even with an established trajectory, Curuca didn't think twice when deciding to change and choose Sicredi. Personalized service is here to stay and conquer Successful UnionFabiana Paulo Gomes de Mendonça, lawyer Jailton Nascimento, CurucaAmong the services contracted, since the beginning of the partnership, are the generation of invoices, car financing, investment of capital and credit card. “We believe in the essence of Sicredi and our relationship with the cooperative has been the best possible”, adds the member. ”Even before the opening of the agency here in the city, we decided to start the partnership, placing our trust in the people who were there representing the cooperative. I can say that the partnership is already a success. Close and personalized service is one of the main differentiators”, emphasizes the associate. Since 2016, the supermarket chain Hippo, from Florianópolis (SC), is associated with Sicredi Aliança. Among the factors that led the company to opt for the cooperative are the close, accessible and human relationship, as well as the ease in taking out credit. According to Hippo's deputy director of Quality, Rosangela Saquete, the cooperative's values ​​are aligned with the company's profile, mainly in relation to valuing employees, differentiated service, innovation, responsible actions social and environmental care. “In practice, we have a close and easy service, which is always available to help and find solutions”, highlights Rosangela. In addition, the cooperative also facilitates opening an account for employees and offers payroll loans. However, Hippo's relationship with Sicredi goes beyond business. “As we are also concerned about the rational use of money, we started a Continuing Education project for our employees, with monthly lectures on Financial Education in partnership with the cooperative. And the initiative is a great success”, celebrates the director. Hippo was born in 1997 with the mission of transforming Diferencials Rosangela Saquete, deputy director of Quality at Hippo. Who is also very pleased with the partnership with Sicredi Aliança since 2018 is businesswoman Jane Balbinotti, owner of the travel agency Açoriana Turismo, located in the center of Florianópolis. With accounts individual and legal entity with the cooperative, Jane highlights the differences that led to the decision for Sicredi. “I have always had this cooperative spirit. I am already part of other associations, as I believe that together we are stronger. And along these lines, I always had the vision that with Sicredi I would be better served and would have a better return on my activities as a businesswoman”, she highlights. Having been in the market for 36 years, Açoriana Turismo has served around 100 thousand customers. For the businesswoman, which works in direct contact with customers, it is precisely the service that makes Sicredi the best option. Together we are stronger Jane Balbinotti, owner, with her team “There's no point in having the best app in the world if behind it you can't talk to human beings. And in this sense, from the beginning I was surprised by the speed with which I received assistance and the concern to offer me products that meet the interests of my company”, adds Jane. through quality products, differentiated service and attitudes that promote well-being. It currently has four stores that offer a mix of differentiated and exclusive products, meats with special cuts, selected vegetables, as well as organic, gluten-free, lactose-free, sugar-free and functional foods. Among the differentiators, highlights include delivery services via internet, telesales and drive-thru; own organic garden; Waste Reuse Program; It is Hippo Corporate University. More than 20 years ago, rural producer and rural entrepreneur, Joel Dalmas, 39 years old, chose the cooperative to be a partner in the development of activities linked to agriculture, poultry farming and service provision. Resident of the town of Capela São Carlos, in the interior of Serafina Corrêa, in addition to producing soy, corn and wheat, he also produces chickens in the integration system and provides services in planting, harvesting and silage. Married to Gislaine Menegatti, 37, and father of Carlos Eduardo, 11, and Heloísa, 4, he remembers with great gratitude all the support received from Sicredi Aliança for the property's growth. “The cooperative helped me a lot. Almost everything I have today was financed solely by Sicredi, including the machinery and the poultry farm. Whenever I needed it, they were ready to help,” says Dalmas. The poultry farmer also highlights the different model of the cooperative in relation to banks. “With quotas, you become part and become associated, with remuneration of the share capital and participation in the results”, he highlights. “Not to mention the service, which is fantastic and always available”, he concludes. Fundamental support in agribusiness Joel Dalmas with his family Another associate from Rio Grande do Sul who is also very satisfied with the relationship with Sicredi Aliança, is the machinist Thiago de Rocco, 43 years, operating in the city of Marau. At the end of 2019, he completed the construction of his house and had credit from the cooperative. “The cooperative offered us a loan with cheaper interest rates and quick contracting,” he recalls. At the end of 2022, the family had to turn to Sicredi once again. “My wife needed to have a cesarean section and once again the cooperative was present in our lives. And this time for an excellent reason, to brighten our lives even more, with the arrival of our daughter Alice”, he highlights. Little Alice came into the world weighing 3.7 kilos and 50.5 centimeters, on the 6th of February, at Passo Fundo Hospital, exuding health and cuteness. She and her mother Ana, 37 years old, did very well and were soon able to return home. “I was promptly attended to and my daughter was born healthy at special moments. I just have to say thank you”, he concludes.Thiago de Rocco with his wife Ana and little AliceLocal DevelopmentWith the aim of allocating resources to entities that carry out social actions of collective interest, the Social Fund of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES allocated, in 2022, a resource of R$864,697.90 for 89 approved projects in the institution's area of ​​activity and developed by 84 entities. The value corresponds to 2% (two percent) of the final result for the 2021 financial year. “The Social Fund has been part of our Cooperative since 2018 as a way of fulfilling our social role of making a difference in the communities where we operate. It is our contribution to actions that contribute to sustainable development, which impacts positively in people's lives”, highlighted the president of the Cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera.Representatives of the projects that benefited from the Social Fund in Rio Grande do Sul More than R$ 864 thousand in resources from the Social Fund In total, 104 projects were registered and 89 recipients. There are 48 initiatives in Rio Grande do Sul and another 41 in Santa Catarina, registered by entities that carry out social actions of collective interest in the areas of education, culture, sport, environment, safety, health, social inclusion, innovation and entrepreneurship. According to the regulation, the project was connected to at least one of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Brazil, they are: Eradication of Poverty; Zero Hunger and Sustainable Agriculture; Health and wellness; Quality education; Gender equality; Clean water and sanitation; Clean and Affordable Energy; Decent Work and Economic Growth; Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; Reduction of Inequalities; Sustainable Cities and Communities; Responsible Consumption and Production; Action Against Global Climate Change; Life in the Water; Earth Life; Peace, Justice and Effective Institutions and Partnerships and Means of Implementation. The value corresponds to 2% of the final result of the 2021 financial year LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Camargo Gaucho Culture for all CTG Pousada Dos Tropeiros Camargo Safer Community Council Pro Public Security My lifestyle is be happy – Senior Citizens Group Santo Antônio de Camargo Grow to welcome Assoc. of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional of Marau Digital Inclusion: "Connected for the future" Associação Beneficente São Francisco de Assis Equipment for the Hospital's Clinical Analysis Laboratory – Stage 1 Associação Hospitalar Beneficente de MarauScaling up to generate results Rehabilitation Center Young Challenge Elchadai Comunicação via radio Soc. Civil Volunteer Fire Department of MarauCasca Digital Inclusion: Disability Efficiency Assoc. Parents and Friends of Bark Exceptional Children Contrast Injector Pump for Tomography Exams – Hospital Beneficente Santa Lucia Gentil Valuing sport in school life Assoc. Parents and Teachers of EEIG Rep. of Colombia Sowing imagination and reaping better citizens Assoc. Parents and Teachers at EM Mundo Mágico Body Movement x Meaningful Learning Assoc. Parents and Teachers of EM Primavera Sala Maker – Circle of Parents and Teachers of EEEM Luiza Quitó Busnello Marau - CentroMarau - Norte Acquisition of Utensils and Equipment for the Implementation of the AMIS Day Center Marauense Association for Social Integration CEFA at school – Education and Training Center for High Performance Athletes AMPD in Action Marauense Association of People with Disabilities Construction of the cafeteria – Safurfa Esporte Clube Reinventing, Enchanting and Educating in Contact with Nature! – CPM of EMEI Favo de Mel Implementation of SUS beds in the HCR Maternity – Rotary Club Marau Para watch the band go by... Association of Parents and Friends of Brigada Mirim SEE THE COMPLETE LIST OF ENTITIES AND PROJECTS BENEFITED IN RIO GRANDE DO SUL:Nicolau Vergueiro Maker Room and Socialization Games CPM of EEEM Nicolau Vergueiro Rainwater collection system for reuse for non-potable purposes CPM of EEEM Nicolau Vergueiro Santo Antônio do Palma Dressing the Rio Grande of tomorrow CTG Pousada dos Tropeiros Technology in Action – WITH Pope John XXIII APF training athletes and citizens Sports, Recreational and Cultural Association Palma São Domingos do Sul Traveling in the CPM Reading of EEEM Frederico Benvegnú Clothing for Culture CTG Clip SerranaVanini Vila MariaProject with an eye on the population Community Council for Public Security Rethinking the CPM reading of EE of 1st and 2nd Degree Canon Josué Bardin São Domingos do Sul - Santa Gema Education: Practices that promote healthy living CPM from EEEF Giovani Mognob Montauri Improvements Room More Education CPM from EE 1st Grade Alexandre de Gusmão First aid training "Love for Neighbors" – Community Council for Public Security of Montauri Athlete of the Future Recreational and Cultural Club of Montauri Dance Course – CTG Querência do ImigranteSerafina Corrêa Save the Life of a Pet Assoc. for the Protection of Animals by Serafina Corrêa Expansion of the CPM Bibliographic Collection of EMEF Mayor Guerino Massolini Gymnastics at the Mothers Club Clube De Mães Renascer Volleyball: an adjunct to physical health and social values, through technical-sports training and development of social values, from the initial categories to adulthood CorrêaThe sound that rocks us Centro de Tradições Gaúchas Felipe Portinho Specialized listening Common Council. Pro Public Security of MarauMarau - Sul Tecnologia a Community Service Community Council for Public Security in the Municipality of Vila Maria Theater workshop Cultural Association Caravan of Illusion Electric Trio Truck Cultural Association Caravan of Illusion Plantar - Collective Space Mitra Arquidiocesana de Passo Fundo Antônio Carlos “In good terms with nature and life” and “Green, Shadows, Flowers and Fruits” – APP from EEB Altamiro Guimarães Reading at the Foot of the Tree APP from the Núcleo Escolar Municipal Cônego Dr. Raulino Parede de Travessia for Inclusive Physical Education APP from EM Dom Afonso Niehues Boulder Qualifying the services offered by APAE APAE de Antônio CarlosFlorianópolis - Campeche Construction of Playground Associação Recreativa Cultural e Esportiva Unidos Florianópolis - CDL Ilhéus Project Florianópolis - Estreito Equipping and modernizing the Relapse Prevention Program Assoc. Chemical Dependency Care CenterAlfredo Wagner Air conditioning of classrooms at the school APP Escola Básica Passo da Limeira Revitalization of APAE by Alfredo Wagner for pedagogical services: building learning with accessibility and respect APAE by Alfredo Wagner Acquisition of computers Medical Assistance Foundation for Rural Workers by Alfredo Wagner Renovating the environment Assoc. of Parents and Teachers of the Biguaçu Municipal Center – Bath Wheelchair Loan Bank – Rotary Club of Biguaçu Workshop for Educators Shelter Institution Vovó Sebastiana Updating and Renovating the Home Elderly “Oswaldo Alípio da Silva - Lar do Seu Doca” - Stage I Beneficent Society for the Support of the Elderly Wellbeing Cooperative – Barão Recyclers' Work Cooperative Barão ReciclagemEducational Program HUIOS Associação Renova Vidas Creche Vó Inácia – Creche Vó InáciaFlorianópolis - Centro Trail guide of the Municipal Natural Park Lagoa do Jacaré das Dunas do Santinho - Florianópolis Actions to preserve Natural Resources and Rational Economic Development Instituto Aprendir EcologyFlorianópolis - TrindadeSEE THE COMPLETE LIST OF ENTITIES AND PROJECTS BENEFITED IN SANTA CATARINA:Refreshing your head to learn better APP Vargem dos Bugres Coopere e Ganhe Sorrisos APP Centro de Educação Infantil Sossego da MamãeLeoberto LealOficinas de Artesanato: Learning to Entrepreneur Playing – Associação Laura dos Santos One Click for Social Inclusion Laura dos Santos Association New Life for Fabrics with the art of “Pró-CREP in Movement” Pró-CREP Association (Create, Recycle, Educate and Preserve)Palhoça - Centro APAE /CAESP Alexsandro Virgílio Raupp - Security at APAE de Paulo Lopes/SC APAE de Paulo Lopes Integrative activities at the best age Community association for social assistance and integrated health de Paulo Lopes – ASSIPA Craft project in best age Community association for social assistance and integrated health in Paulo Lopes – ASSIPAPaulo Lopes Warming hands Association of Volunteers Frei Fidencio Hospital and Maternity São Francisco De Assis União Project: Training to win, not winning to form – Associação União Santo Amaro and Águas Mornas União The work of many São Francisco de Assis Hospital Association ADESA: training athletes and citizens Santo Amaro Sports AssociationSanto Amaro da Imperatriz Robotics Sustainable Rotary Club São José Higiene é Saúde Assoc. Friends of the São José Regional Hospital Patient Comfort Assoc. Friends of the São José Regional HospitalSão José - Kobrasol Palhoça Esporte Clube Palhoça - AririúQuem ama Protege - Puppet Theater and Educational Videos Portal of Hope SOS Child in Action Who loves Protege - Coral Vozes do Arvoredo Portal of Hope SOS Child in Action Art with love Lions Club of Florianópolis InglesesFlorianópolis - Ingleses Environmental project Scout Group Terceira Island Cultural art workshops environmental education at the headquarters of IMMC Instituto Monitoramento Mirim Costeiro Recovery of stray dogs Protective Association of wild animals Garopaba New playground in the community square Caieira do Norte Residents Association Garopaba Governor Celso Ramos Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES aims to promote the social development of the communities in which it operates. We believe that education is a very important tool for transformation. Therefore, we invest more and more in the A União Faz a Vida Program. This is an initiative with the aim of developing in children and adolescents the principles of cooperation and citizenship. To achieve this, we have our own teaching methodology that encourages students to be protagonists, think critically, make decisions and build projects collectively. The Program can be applied in Early Childhood Education, Elementary Education and Secondary Education. In 2022, we maintained our operations in Marau/RS and São Domingos do Sul/RS. Furthermore, we expanded the actions to Nicolau Vergueiro/RS and Alfredo Wagner/SC. Our program is present in 17 schools, impacting 233 educators and 2,300 students. SANTA CATARINA - With the aim of building and experiencing attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship, through cooperative education practices, Sicredi Programa A União Faz a Vida Aliança RS/SC/ES promoted, on the 17th and 18th of March, in the hall of the Evangelical Church, a training session of the A União Faz a Vida Program for teachers from seven municipal schools in Alfredo Wagner (SC). The meeting brought together approximately 100 educators in the stage called Qualification Initial, which aims to promote knowledge and experience of the methodology and principles of the program, providing educators with the opportunity to approach work with project pedagogy and its experimentation in the school and community territory. According to the president of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, Ivo Miri Brugnera, the program developed by the cooperative promotes the experience of collaborative learning situations and reaffirms Sicredi Aliança's commitment to citizenship and education, strengthening skills such as collaboration, active participation and mediating leadership. “With the A União Faz a Vida Program, we contribute to the integral education and protagonism of children and adolescents through a teaching methodology that encourages the values ​​of cooperation and citizenship”, summarizes Brugnera. Two schools participate in the Program in Nicolau Vergueiro/RS Our program is present in 17 schools, impacting 233 educators and 2,300 studentsEvent held in Alfredo Wagner/SCTeachers from Marau (RS) met on April 9th, at the administrative headquarters of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, for the beginning of the activities of the 2022 academic year of the A União Faz a Vida (PUFV) Program in the municipality. The Continuing Education training was led by pedagogical advisors Jandira Brochier Freitas and Nara Darlene Chaves and brought together educators from the Municipal School of Elementary Education Honorino Pereira Borges and the Municipal Schools of Education Children's Dream, Happy Child and Honeycomb. The program aims to promote attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship among children and adolescents, helping to transform the reality of students, their families and communities. In addition to extending activities to other municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina, PUFV had the participation of three new schools in Marau (RS), which joined the program in April. On the 13th, the EMEIs Pequeno Aprendiz, Pingo de Gente and Mundo Encantado participated in the Initial Qualification stage, which presented the program's methodology and enabled teachers to develop these initiatives throughout the year in their educational institutions. Continuing training in MarauTeachers from Marau (RS) met on April 9th, at the administrative headquarters of Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES 79 educators participated in the qualification In addition to them, new teachers who joined schools that are already part of the program participated in the qualification, which brought together 79 educators. Also present at this event were the mayor of Marau, Iura Kurtz, and representatives of the Department of Education Angelica Rigo Tibola, Claudiane Ribeiro, Milene Volpato and Patricia Reichert. In total, the training included two more meetings, held on April 22nd and 28th, with activities led by pedagogical advisors Jandira Brochier Freitas and Nara Darlene Chaves.Students from Marau founded the first cooperative school in the municipalitySee the video by scanning the QR code HPB Cooper is the first School Cooperative in Marau An event in the history of Marau. On November 23, at the Municipal Elementary School (EMEF) Honorino Pereira Borges, the first school cooperative in the municipality was founded: HPB Cooper. On the occasion, the 21 students participated in the Extraordinary General Assembly (AGE) of the foundation, attended by students, teachers, authorities and guests. The founding ceremony, encouraged by the Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES Credit Cooperative, was broadcast live on the credit union's YouTube. According to Sicredi Aliança's Cooperative Development Coordinator, Layzirre Dayane Santos, the mobilization of students began with the 2022 school year. In April, the Advisor teacher, Fábia Féo, concluded the training process with the advisors pedagogical experts Pablo Silveira and Francele Concatto Machado, starting to work directly in student guidance. HPB Cooper is made up of 21 students, aged between 11 and 15, who will be directly involved in the project. Through the program, young people can develop economic, social and cultural activities for the benefit of members, through a pedagogical proposal that encourages the practice of cooperation. “We are very happy with the founding of Sicredi Aliança’s first school cooperative, which seeks to expand learning opportunities for children and teenagers, who can experience in practice the values ​​and principles of cooperativism”, highlighted the president of Sicredi Aliança, Ivo Miri Brugnera. The School Cooperatives Program is based on the methodology of the Cooperlândia analog game, which occurs in phases. The first is the “Knowledge” phase, which encompasses missions that students need to complete such as “Discovery”, “Rescuing the past”, “Painting the Seven”, “The Compass”, “Communicator”, “Superpowers” and “Crossing”. “All these missions lead up to the moment of founding the cooperative, which closes this first moment of learning. From now on, the Creativity phase begins, with the development of the learning object”, highlights the coordinator. From the foundation, the students – who already know more about the cooperative universe and the benefits of a School Cooperative – begin the development of HPB Cooper, with the planning of actions. This phase is based on three major themes, divided into seven missions, which are the management of the Cooperative (registration, management plan and positions/functions), Financial Education and Learning Object. “Creativity permeates this phase, as it is the ‘fuel’ for the creation of the learning object and for the Cooperative’s management flows”, emphasizes Layzirre. ATTENDANCE - The founding Assembly, which elected the first board of directors of the school cooperative - chaired by student Juan Soares de Lima - was also accompanied by the president of the Aliança RS/SC/ES Credit Cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera, by the vice-president, Valmir Luís Menegat, by the Executive director, Cristiano Piano, by the Operations director, Andrigo Vanz, by the director of Escola Honorino, Juliana Bonamigo , by the vice-director, Douglas Battisti, and by the Secretary of Education of Marau, Simone Costenaro Ribeiro, among others. The first board of directors of the school cooperative will be chaired by student Ruan Soares de Lima HPB Cooper is made up of 21 students, aged between 11 and 15, who will be directly involved in the projectAn event for the history of Marau. On November 23, at the Municipal Elementary School (EMEF) Honorino Pereira Borges, the first school cooperative in the municipality was founded: HPB Cooper. On the occasion, the 21 students participated in the Extraordinary General Assembly (AGE) of the foundation, attended by students, teachers, authorities and guests. The founding ceremony, encouraged by the Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES Credit Cooperative, was broadcast live on the credit union's YouTube. According to Sicredi Aliança's Cooperative Development Coordinator, Layzirre Dayane Santos, the mobilization of students began with the 2022 school year. In April, the Advisor teacher, Fábia Féo, concluded the training process with the advisors pedagogical experts Pablo Silveira and Francele Concatto Machado, starting to work directly in student guidance. HPB Cooper is made up of 21 students, aged between 11 and 15, who will be directly involved in the project. Through the program, young people can develop economic, social and cultural activities for the benefit of members, through a pedagogical proposal that encourages the practice of cooperation. “We are very happy with the founding of Sicredi Aliança’s first school cooperative, which seeks to expand learning opportunities for children and teenagers, who can experience in practice the values ​​and principles of cooperativism”, highlighted the president of Sicredi Aliança, Ivo Miri Brugnera. The School Cooperatives Program is based on the methodology of the Cooperlândia analog game, which occurs in phases. The first is the “Knowledge” phase, which encompasses missions that students need to complete such as “Discovery”, “Rescuing the past”, “Painting the Seven”, “The Compass”, “Communicator”, “Superpowers” and “Crossing”. “All these missions lead up to the moment of founding the cooperative, which closes this first moment of learning. From now on, the Creativity phase begins, with the development of the learning object”, highlights the coordinator. From the foundation, the students – who already know more about the cooperative universe and the benefits of a School Cooperative – begin the development of HPB Cooper, with the planning of actions. This phase is based on three major themes, divided into seven missions, which are the management of the Cooperative (registration, management plan and positions/functions), Financial Education and Learning Object. “Creativity permeates this phase, as it is the ‘fuel’ for the creation of the learning object and for the Cooperative’s management flows”, emphasizes Layzirre. ATTENDANCE - The founding Assembly, which elected the first board of directors of the school cooperative - chaired by student Juan Soares de Lima - was also accompanied by the president of the Aliança RS/SC/ES Credit Cooperative, Ivo Miri Brugnera, by the vice-president, Valmir Luís Menegat, by the Executive director, Cristiano Piano, by the Operations director, Andrigo Vanz, by the director of Escola Honorino, Juliana Bonamigo , by the vice-director, Douglas Battisti, and by the Secretary of Education of Marau, Simone Costenaro Ribeiro, among others. The School Cooperatives Program is based on the Cooperlândia analog game methodology, which takes place in phases.Cooperativa Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES promoted the theater play #Juntos The presentation had free entry Theme is approached with lightness and good humorFinancial education with the theater play #Juntos On June 10th, Cooperativa Sicredi Aliança RS/ SC/ES promoted, at its administrative headquarters in Marau, the theater play #Juntos. The presentation had free entry and was part of the national tour of the show that aims to bring financial education, with lightness and good humor, to 80 Brazilian municipalities. #Juntos is set in the challenging universe of high school and explores the transition to adult life in the face of technology, human relationships and an uncertain future.Event in Marau Centro, Norte, Sul, São Domingos do Sul and Santa Gema Agência Piúma - ES Agência Rancho Queimado - SCO National Financial Education Program Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis is developed together with all cooperatives, Centrals and the Sicredi Foundation. The Program applies the method COOPS for financial transformation, designed to help people step by step to build sustainable financial habits through five steps: raise awareness, observe, organize, prepare and sustain. At Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES, in 2022, we promoted 174 Cooperation meetings in Ponta do Lápis, with 4,797 people impacted, an increase of 69.9% compared to 2021.Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis Pedagogical Show EMEI Mundo Encantado Marau - RSAs Pedagogical Exhibitions, involving schools participating in the A União Faz a Vida Program in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina, were a great success. In Nicolau Vergueiro, the event took place in October, while in Marau, the exhibitions were held from November 8th to 10th. The month of December began with the Exhibition in São Domingos do Sul (1st) and ended with Alfredo Wagner's schools presenting their projects on the 7th, 8th and 9th. Pedagógica São Domingos do Sul - RSOn July 2nd, Sicredi Aliança promoted several voluntary actions in the three states in which it operates in reference to Day C (Cooperate Day) – a national initiative led by the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB) –, which always takes place on the first Saturday of July, known as International Cooperative Day. “There were activities aimed at children, young people, adults and the elderly, with the involvement of more than 300 volunteers, all from simultaneously in the municipalities where we operate in Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Espírito Santo”, explained the Cooperative Development coordinator, Layzirre Dayane Santos. Led by employees who work at Sicredi Aliança's 36 service points in the three states, the activities involved food donation, planting seedlings, cleaning beaches, squares and highways, visits to orphanages and nursing homes, cultural presentations, sports activities , in health and exams, More than 300 volunteers participate in Day C Alfredo Chaves brought together employees and volunteers Florianópolis - SC Marau - RS Covid-19 vaccination, painting of squares, courts, parking spaces and banners for People with Disabilities (PWDs), among others. In addition to the specific actions of each municipality related to C-Day, from June 14th to July 1st, all Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ES agencies were integrated into a large collective campaign. With the slogan “People who cooperate, warm up!”, they were Clothes, coats, blankets and shoes were collected and passed on to partner entities. MARAU – In the municipality of Marau, headquarters of the cooperative, garbage was collected on Rua Antonio Vilela, in the São Cristovão/Novo Horizonte neighborhood, and fruit seedlings were planted in the central median of Rua Antoninho Santin – Loteamento Santin. The urban cleaning action collected waste from the stretch between Av. Julio Borella and the BRF company interchange. The collected material was collected by Municipality, responsible for weighing and correctly disposing of them. Service Network Coverage map Sicredi Aliança RS/SC/ESAgências do Rio Grande do Sul Agencies in Santa CatarinaAgência Camargo Av. Brasil, 824 Centro - Camargo - RS Tel.: (54) 3371-1680 Agência Marau Centro Av. Julio Borella, 948 Centro - Marau - RS (54) 3342-7676 Montauri Agency Rua Demetrio Ribeiro, 415 Centro - Montuari - RS Tel.: (54) 3319-1094 São Domingos do Sul Agency Av. Luis Benvegnu, 594 Centro - São Domingos do Sul - RS Tel.: (54) 3349-1012 Agência Vanini Rua Presidente Vargas, 30 Centro - Vanini - RS Tel.: (54) 3340-1115 / 3340-1285Agência Casca Rua Tiradentes, 876 Centro - Casca - RS Tel .: (54) 3347-1522 Agência Marau Norte Rua José Posser Sobrinho, 1136 Santa Lúcia - Marau - RS Tel.: (54) 3371-1690 Agência Nicolau Vergueiro Av. 20 de Marco, 567 Centro - Nicolau Vergueiro - RS Tel. : (54) 99122-1312 Santo Antônio do Palma Agency Av. Vinte de Março, 717 Centro - Santo Antonio do Palma - RS Tel.: (54) 3371-1685 Agência Vila Maria Av. Farroupilha, 91 Centro - Vila Maria - RS Tel.: (54) 3359-1670Agência Gentil Av. Vinte de Março, 1198 Centro - Gentil - RS Tel.: (54 ) 3371-1681 Agência Marau Sul Av. Julio Borella, 1867 Centro - Marau - RS Tel.: (54) 3342-2850 / 3342-2873 Agência Santa Gema Av. Monsenhor João Benvegnú, 525 Distrito Santa Gema São Domingos do Sul - RS Tel.: (54) 3349-1636 Seraﬁna Corrêa Agency Av. Miguel Soccol, 3034 Centro - Seraﬁna Corrêa - RS Tel.: (54) 3444-1259 Campeche Agency Rua Pequeno Príncipe, 1375 - Loja 02 Campeche - Florianópolis - SC Tel.: (48) 3226-2598CDL Agency Rua Felipe Schmidt, 679 Centro - Florianópolis - SC Tel.: (48) 3225-3252Agência Florianópolis Centro Av. Rio Branco , 691 - Ed. Atlantis Centro - Florianópolis - SC Tel.: (48) 3223-4200 Agência Estreito Rua Fúlvio Aducci, 1229 Estreito - Florianópolis - SC Tel.: (48) 3380-3921 Agência Garopaba Rua Pref. João Orestes de Araujo,740 Centro - Garopaba - SC Tel.: (48) 3254-4529Agency Ingleses Rod. João Gualberto Soares, 56 Ingleses - Florianópolis - SC Tel.: (48) 3369-8964Agência Alfredo Wagner Rua Anitapolis, 453 Centro - Alfredo Wagner - SC Tel.: (48) 3276-1955 / 3276-1543Agência Antônio Carlos Rua Daniel Petry, 233 Centro - Antônio Carlos - SC Tel.: (48) 3272-0562 / 3272-0243Agência Biguaçú Rua Barão do Rio Branco, 77 Centro - Biguaçu - SC Tel.: (48) 3285-7068 / 3285-7130 Agency Aririú Av. Bom Jesus de Nazaré, 1665 Aririú - Palhoça - SC Tel.: (48) 3283-4489 / 3283-5366Agência Gov. Celso Ramos Av. Ganchos, 407 - Gancho do Meio Governador Celso Ramos - SC Tel.: (48) 3262-0039Agência Leoberto Leal Rua Mainolfo Lehmkuhl, 69 Centro - Leoberto Leal - SC Tel.: (48) 3268 -1219 / 3268-1298 Agência Paulo Lopes Rua Florianópolis, 100 Centro - Paulo Lopes - SC Tel.: (48) 3253-0473 / 3253-0462Agência Trindade Rua Lauro Linhares, 2123 Trindade - Florianópolis - SC Tel.: (48) 3226 -9486 Palhoça Agency Rua Tenente Francisco Lehmkhul, 14 Centro - Palhoça - SC Tel.: (48) 3242-1305Agências do Espírito Santo Agência Guarapari Av. Padre José de Anchieta, 3961, Muquiçaba - Guarapari - ES Tel.: (27) 3500-1200 / 3500-1211Agência Piúma Av. Izaias Scherrer, 30 Centro - Piúma - ES Tel.: (28) 3199-0050 Alfredo Chaves Agency Av. Alcy Cavalini, sn - Cond. Vilaggio Monte Verde - Parque Residencial Alfredo Chaves - Alfredo Chaves - ES Tel.: (27) 3500-1162Agência Areias Rua da Independência, 500 - Room B500 Areias - São José - SC Tel.: (48) 3380-3930Agência Pagani Av. Atílio Pedro Pagani, Esq. Rua T 05 Room 02 - Pagani - Palhoça - SC Tel.: (48) 3380-3931Agência Rancho Queimado Praça Leonardo Sell, 18 Centro - Rancho Queimado - SC Tel.: (48) 3380-3920 Agência Anchieta Rodovia do Sol, 2387 Lot . Oliveira - Anchieta- ES Tel.: (28) 3199-0042 Agência Domingos Martins Av. Presidente Vargas, 571 Edif. João de Freitas - Sala Terreo Centro - Domingos Martins - ES Tel.: (27) 3500-1163Agência Barreiros Av. Leoberto Leal, 440 Barreiros - São José - SC Tel.: (48) 3346-2023 / 3346-2075 Agência Forquilhinha Rua Ver. Arthur Manoel Mariano, 1737 Forquilhinha - São José - SC Tel.: (48) 3247-4301Agência Kobrasol Rua Koesa, 298 - Loja 04 Kobrasol - São José - SC Tel.: ( 48) 3247-5895Agência Santo Amaro da Imperatriz Rua Prefeito José Koerich, 5203 Centro - Santo Amaro da Imperatriz - SC Tel.: (48) 3245-8762