CHAPTER SUBTITLE ___________________________ XX Section Title ___________________________________ XX Section Title ___________________________________ XX CHAPTER SUBTITLE ___________________________ XX Section Title ___________________________________ XX Section Title ___________________________________ you will find it here Chapter 1 PRESENTATION • 07 In this chapter, we present Sicredi and its history: • Leadership Message • 120 years of Sicredi • Our cooperative essenceChapter 2 WE ARE SICREDI • 19 We present what was highlighted in 2022 and our differences. • Sicredi System • Our Differences • Awards and Recognition • Our Cooperative • Highlights 2022 Chapter 3 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY • 31 We demonstrate our ESG drivers and our commitment to the Pact Global and the SDGs. • Our Sustainability Strategy5 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Chapter 4 RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM • 39 In this chapter we will present how we generate value by strengthening our cooperative business model. • Strengthen our management model • Participative Management of the Cooperative • Pertencer Program and other initiatives for the dissemination of Cooperatives • Promote inclusion and diversity Chapter 5 RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS • 55 We approach it as our products and services and our overall sustainable operation value. • Promote Financial Education • Promote eco-efficient management • Promote integrated risk management Chapter 6 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT • 67 • Promote the local economy • Promote the Development of people and Social Responsibility • Investment in Social Development • Pay attention to social causes6PresentationPresentation01Chapter 01 Presentation Hello! So good to meet you here! This stuff you're receiving is a summary of the main numbers and actions developed by the cooperative Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC in our region in the year 2022. In it, we present how we support the sustainable development of our community through solutions beyond the financial, adding value and growth for all. Also, in each chapter we will reference the SDGs (sustainable development goals) that are part of the UN Global Compact (United Nations). They show our commitment to the focal themes of our strategic planning, in search of an increasingly prosperous society. Through this report, you will also see how we promote dialogue between cooperatives and members, reinforcing our commitment to transparency and responsibility, two essential values ​​of cooperatives. Happy reading!8Message from Leadership It is with a feeling of accomplishment and great pride that we publish this report. We feel very happy in being able to present so many positive results. The year 2022 was marked by important developments and many achievements, a time to move towards promising results and innovation, strengthening our bond with the community by offering new facilities for joining the cooperative. Through our digital channels, more than 16 thousand new members were able to join the cooperative. Innovation constantly knocks on our door and we reinvent ourselves to always offer the best and thus make maintaining people's financial lives much more modern and simplified. The financial needs of members were met in different ways, but the digital medium enhanced and facilitated our relationships, even though eye-to-eye contact remains, as humanization in our relationships is an important value for Sicredi. We have evolved our business to be even closer to you. The cooperative essence was maintained throughout every year, very well aligned with our positioning, our mission, vision and our values. Today, with 369 employees and more than 98 thousand associates, we continue to invest our efforts in close and active relationships, consolidating our operating model by obtaining an 81.5% satisfaction rate from our associates in the NPS survey. Our area of ​​activity also evolved in 2022. We opened 3 new branches, 1 new business office and reopened 2 others with improvements agencies, expanding our services in the State of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande Mario A. Maurina Chairman of the Board of Directors9 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022do Sul. The virtuous cycle of cooperativism continued alive, through our solutions. In 2022 we maintained a safe deposit portfolio, which enabled us to meet local demand. Our credit portfolio grew 24.5% compared to 2021, reaching the R$2.1 billion mark, demonstrating our ability to contribute to the economic development of our region in a sustainable way. Our cooperative development programs directly impacted more than 7 thousand people and through various initiatives we inspired the construction of a better world. Our Financial Education program was also highlighted. With it we manage to bring awareness to people about their relationships with money, developing habits and attitudes that contribute to a more financial life. sustainable. Furthermore, through the Social Fund, we support several projects in our community that aim to add income and generate a better quality of life. We continually reaffirm our purpose of building, together, a more prosperous society. These progress are only possible with the dedication of our teams and the active participation of our associates. We are also very grateful to this cooperative family made up of associates, collaborators and the community, who together, they help write our history. This coming year, we will be looking more and more at the reality of each region, with personalized attention, after all, our aim is to understand their particularities, focusing on generating the positive impact and the difference we want to make in people's lives. 10120 years of SicrediCooperativism : In 2022, Sicredi completed 120 years of history. A journey that was closely connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for associates and communities where we are present.Our origins happened with the founding of the first Credit Cooperative in Brazil, in 1902, by the Jesuit priest Theodor Amstad and a group of German immigrants, small owners and rural workers from Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul 11 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Theodor Amstad was born in Switzerland in 1851. From a young age, he dedicated himself to community activities in Germany, England and the Netherlands, learning about the importance of cooperative actions for the development of local workers. In Nova Petrópolis (RS), the priest joined 20 local associates and, together, they put this collective vision into practice to build a better future. They started a cooperative venture that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country, in addition to the first Central bringing together Cooperatives, in the first decades of the 20th century. Over the years, the model was taken forward, it overcame the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside it arrived in the cities, maintaining through time the purpose of adding income through investments and shared resources, with equal participation and benefits for all associates and promotion of quality of life.12Timeline Get to know some relevant historical facts of our history. 1902 Establishment of the first credit cooperative in Latin America, in Nova Petrópolis/RS, currently Sicredi Pioneira RS.1964 Reformulation of the National Financial System Law No. 4,595/64, which imposed normative restrictions on the operation of credit cooperatives.1971 Sanctioned Law No. 5,764/71, which defined the legal regime of cooperative societies.1988 New Federal Constitution establishes favorable regulatory conditions for credit cooperatives. The promulgation of the 1988 Constitution represented, for credit cooperativism, the possibility of achieving the operational autonomy desired since the origins of the movement in Brazil. 1995 Constitution of Bansicredi, the first private cooperative bank in Brazil, responsible for establishing financial autonomy for cooperatives and allowing more efficient access to the financial market and special financing programs.13 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022 2008 Constitution of Sicredi Participações - SicrediPar. 2018 Completion of the migration process of cooperatives and Central Sicredi North/Northeast. Migration became a milestone in our history not only because of the expansion itself, but also because of the way it was developed, based on the systemic integration of different cultures.2022 Sicredi celebrates 120 years of history in credit cooperatives.2020 Sicredi becomes Member of the UN Global Compact. Find out more about our history in the publication A Trajetória do Sicredi: https://www.sicredi.com.br/trajetoria/ 141 Free membership and voluntary Cooperatives are voluntary organizations, open to everyone. While other financial institutions, for example, close agreements with large companies to offer a salary account on a mandatory basis for their employees, in a credit union membership happens differently. After the presentation on how cooperativism works, everyone can freely choose whether to join or not. 6 Intercooperation Cooperatives work in together to strengthen the cooperative movement. Sicredi is a living example of this, built by the union of several cooperatives, which grow together in a win-win model, bringing prosperity to its members.2 Democratic management All members have the same voting power, with the same weight in assemblies . This way, everyone decides together on the direction of the cooperative, to deal with issues such as leadership election, remuneration or even the amounts invested in social programs. THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES OF COOPERATIVISM Which were born with the Rochdale Pioneers and which govern cooperatives around the world, have been reformulated over the years to meet the social demands of each era. Its last update was carried out by ACI (International Cooperative Alliance) in 1995. At Sicredi, they direct and support us in generating positive impact:15 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 20225 Education, training and information Education, training and Information from members is the most solid way to generate prosperity. Based on this principle, cooperatives promote various education programs in the communities where they are present. Examples of this action are the School Cooperatives Program, the A União Faz a Vida Program, the Crescer e Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis Program, which form cooperative citizens who engage in the development of their 3 Economic participation of members Members participate in the economic result of the cooperative, that is, the result of operations generated by the money invested by members returns to their pockets, as decided democratically in the assemblies. 4 Autonomy and independence The cooperative is totally autonomous and independent in its decisions, and can only be controlled by its members, in a democratic management model. THE PIONEERS OF ROCHDALE Modern cooperativism emerged in the 19th century, in England, with a group of workers who sought to improve their lives and collective prosperity, within a context of advancement of the Industrial Revolution in the country. This scenario brought devastating social impacts to the urban population, such as hunger, poverty, long working hours and child labor. Faced with the difficulty they faced in purchasing quality food and essential items at fair prices, in 1844, 28 weavers and other artisans got together and founded the Society of Probos Pioneiros de Rochdale (Rochdale Quitable Pioneers Society Limited). Together, they created an alternative that, through cooperation and joint efforts, provided a fairer economic and social model. Each of the associates contributed one pound, an initial investment that helped open the doors of a cooperative warehouse, starting a business completely outside the standards of the time, without employees and bosses, where responsibilities and results were divided. equally. The pioneers of Rochdale marked the history of Cooperatives for understanding that values ​​and principles are necessary for an enterprise to grow and maintain its purpose over the years, generating value for everyone involved.16Our cooperative essence VIRTUOUS CYCLE OF COOPERATIVISM When exercising our role active associates, acting as business owners, we make everyone's financial lives more cooperative and prosperous. While some invest and save, others use this amount in the form of credit to realize their dreams, buy, produce and undertake. In this way, money circulates, moves the local economy and becomes the supply of jobs, products and services, income generation and more opportunities. Our business model creates a virtuous cycle that encourages investment in the cooperative and the use of financial solutions that promote member businesses, community growth and development of people of the region. Furthermore, through our non-financial solutions, we expand the positive impact beyond associates, also improving living conditions in communities. Thus, we can say that cooperativism constitutes a model for generating differentiated value, having at its roots the DNA of sustainability. A phrase by Father Theodor Amstad, precursor of credit cooperativism in Brazil, summarizes this view: “Not just working for myself, but for the others or for the common good”120 YEARS OF COOPERATIVISM17 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022As can be seen, solidarity and responsibility towards society — two of the fundamental values ​​of cooperativism — were already present from the first days of the movement in Brazil. We are very proud of the path we have taken and the trajectory we have built over these years. Knowing our history inspires us to continue taking new steps and generating impact for society, through essence of cooperativism. Mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective System. Values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for official and internal standards; • Efficiency and transparency in management.PURPOSE To build a more prosperous society together.1802 We are Sicredi20Sistema Sicredi We are the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. We were born in Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul, in 1902, and, Since then, our purpose has been one: to build, together, a more prosperous society. In total, there are 105 cooperatives that operate autonomously and are organized in this national system that guarantees security and solidity to members. Our business consists of raising resources from members in the same regions, ensuring that such resources remain in the local community and stimulating sustainable development. We offer financial products and services in a way simple and close for you, your company and agribusiness.6.4 million associates 2,439 branches 26 States and the Federal District More than 35 thousand employees R$ 263.5 billion in assets R$ 30.7 billion in net worth Data referring to month of February/23.SYSTEM NUMBERS21 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022RSPRMS SPMG RJESGOMTROACAMRR PAAP MA PICE TO BASEALPEPBRN SC22Our differences Purpose To build, together, a more prosperous society. Mission As a cooperative system, value the relationship, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Inspirational 2030 Indicates the aspiration of making Sicredi a leading institution in local and sustainable development.23 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a system; • Respect for official and internal standards; • Efficiency and transparency in management. Principles of cooperativism • Voluntary and free membership; • Democratic management by members; • Economic participation of associates; • Autonomy and independence; • Education, training and information; • Intercooperation; • Interest in the community.24 BEST PERFORMANCE AWARD: The video calling functionality in Libras (Brazilian Sign Language) for WhatsApp from Sicredi, a cooperative financial institution with more than 6 million members, won the Gold trophy in the Best Performance Award. The institution was recognized in the category “Innovation for customer/consumer service – channels and platforms of digital service”, as a case that promotes the inclusion of people with hearing impairment in digital service. RECLAME HERE AWARD: Sicredi won 2nd place in the Reclame Aqui Award in the Financial Solutions category. With the popular vote of consumers taken into account, in addition to the companies' reputation, Reclame AQUI presents to the market companies that value their consumers. The companies with the best reputations on the Reclame AQUI website are indicated and, therefore, through popular vote, choosing those that have the best service in the opinion of consumers. BEST BANKS IN THE WORLD FORBES We achieved 4th position among the best financial institutions in Brazil in the World’s Best Banks 2022 ranking, carried out by Forbes in partnership with Statista, a statistics company. The result of the recent evaluation, which indicated the 15 best Brazilian financial institutions, places Sicredi three positions above the previous survey, relating to 2021. ECONOMIC VALUE Category “100 Largest Banks” 8th position. Fixed Income Funds-Private Credit Category up to 15 days; Fixed Income Funds – Real Interest Category; Fixed Income Funds - Active Fixed Income Category; Fixed Income Funds - DI Fixed Income Category; Variable Income Fund - Shares Category; Fund with Variable Income - Multimarket Category and Fund with Variable Income - Low Volatility Multimarket Category. Awards and Recognition25 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022 GREAT PLACE TO WORK (GPTW) Best Companies to Work For Sicredi ranked 4th as the best company to work for in the “Financial Institutions-Credit Cooperatives” category by GPTW (Great Place to Work). The ranking is published annually and rewards the best companies to work for at a national, regional, sectoral and thematic level. BNDES RANKINGS: Federal Government agricultural programs: 1st PRONAF Investment; 1st PRONAMP Investment; 1st Inovagro 1st MODERAGRO; 2nd PROIRRIGA. GENERAL RANKINGS: 1st MSME indirect operations; 2nd Indirect operations. SMALL BUSINESSES: 1st Credit Small businesses ÉPOCA 360 Sicredi is the 8th largest bank in Brazil by total assets according to the Época Negócios 360 º yearbook With more than R$ 197 billion in assets, the institution showed annual growth of 27, 6% increasing one position compared to the 2021 ranking The institution is the 6th largest by deposit, totaling almost R$130 billion, and the 8th largest in total equity, with just over R$25 billion, a growth of 22.6%. In relation to net profit, Sicredi also ranked 8th, with R$4.7 billion. According to the yearbook, the 100 largest banks in the country grew 7% last year. TOP 100 OPEN CORPS Sicredi is considered one of the market leaders in Open Innovation and is, for the fourth consecutive year, classified in the 100 Open Startups ranking as one of the TOP Open Corps 2022. In addition to being among the 50 companies selected in the general ranking, Sicredi won second place in the “Financial Services” category. TOP ASSET In 2022, the ranking classified Sicredi as 7th among the best fixed income fund managers. The 49th edition of Top Asset, published in April, was based on the 12-month period, ending in December 2021. Sicredi's fixed income funds were in 7th place in the ranking, with R$34,816.84 million. The publication highlights the capillarity of cooperative system, which has 2,200 branches, distributed in more than 100 cooperatives in the country.26Our cooperative Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC “From people to people”. This is how a cooperative financial institution is formed. Our cooperative was designed based on people's collective needs based on the universal principles of cooperativism. In 1988, when it took its first steps, it only served rural producers. Today, it serves 98 thousand members from all segments of society, whether from the countryside or the city. Over these 34 years, we have evolved and grown together. We are very proud to say that we are close to our associates, positively impacting the regions where we operate in Rio Grande do Sul and West Santa Catarina. Our financial solutions cooperate with people's lives in an agile, close and human way. We venerate transparency and seek a quality and lasting that adds value to people and transforms realities. + 98 thousand members 44 municipalities 34 agencies 1 business office 369 employees R$ 2.7 billion in assets R$ 330 million in net worth Data referring to the month of February 2023. SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA NUMBERS27 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/ SC 2022Água SantaTapejaraIbiaçáCharru a SananduvaSão J oão da UrtigaPaim Filh oMachadinho Cacique Dobl eSão J osé do Our oBarracãoCampos Novo s EsmeraldaPinhal da Serra Many CapõesVacaria Monte Alegre dos Campos JaquiranaSão J osédos Ausente sBom Jardim da SerraSão J oaqui mUrupem aPainel Capão A ltoCampo Belo do SulCerro Negr oAnita GaribaldiCelso Ramo sZorté a Abdo m BatistaVargemBrunópolisCutitibanos São J osé do Cerrito Correia PintoPonte Alta Palmeira Lage s Bom Jesus Cambará do Sul Saint Expedito do SulTupanc ido Sul Vila Lângaro Santa Cecília do SulSC RS Agency s Business Office sAdministrative Headquarters28Highlights in 2022 EXPANSION OF THE COOPERATIVA EASE OF ALTERNATIVE CHANNELS With the possibility of carrying out more and more financial transactions digitally, we offer members autonomy to choose through which channel they would like to be served, and in the case of non-members, choose where, when and through which channel they wish to initiate the its relationship with the cooperative. In 2022, 1,526 people started their journey as members through Business Partners, opening their account without having to go to an agency. Also through digital means, 411 members joined our cooperative through “Become a Member”, completing their account opening online from the comfort of their home. LAUNCHING SICREDI SHOPPING One of the big news of the year for members was the option to purchase more than 50 thousand items from retail partners, within our Shopping Sicredi, offering a solution that guarantees ease, security and much more convenience in the market digital. And by 2023, our legal entity members will also be able to be sellers and sell their products on the platform, further strengthening the local economy. To discover and buy, simply access Shopping Sicredi on your Sicredi app, Sicredi X app, Internet Banking or via the website shopping.sicredi.com.br. Aligned with the purpose of bringing cooperativism to our entire area of ​​activity, in 2022 our cooperative continued to expand its commitment to associates. We opened new branches in the cities of Curitibanos, Campo Belo do Sul and São Joaquim, and started serving in Correia Pinto with a business office. 29 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022FUTURO PREMIADO CAMPAIGN The Futuro Premiado Campaign was an initiative that positively involved the Cooperative's members in 2022, with various gifts and prizes. With it, we make members aware of the importance of saving and planning their future in a sustainable way. sustainable. 33 43-inch televisions were distributed, 33 29-inch bicycles, 24-speed gearboxes, 5 0km Honda CG 160 motorcycles, as well as a Fiat Toro car, 2.0 INTERNATIONAL RECOGNITION The new administrative headquarters of Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC was planned for be self-sufficient in water and energy. The building brings annual savings to the Cooperative in addition to careful attention to the environment. That's why, in 2022, we received the LEED Platinum seal, a international recognition that reinforces our purpose of expanding the positive impact on society. 30 31 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022 03 Sustainability Strategy 32Our Sustainability Strategy At Sicredi, we operate in line with the main global concepts relating to Sustainable Development, generating value for our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our constitution we have kept a close eye on our impacts. This concern was materialized in a robust sustainability strategy, which incorporates the best management practices on the topic and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. The expression ESG (environmental, social and governance) seeks to demonstrate that the long-term survival of organizations depends on them also generating value in these three aspects. Our strategy incorporates the “ESG vision” of market, understanding it as the management itself for the sustainability of the business. Sicredi's three essential strategic guidelines, which guide everything we do: Mission, Vision and Values: describe the guidelines that guide our business and guide our development in practice . Based on our guidelines, we build the systemic documents and policies that guide our strategy, decision-making, operations and conduct. The Sustainability Policy establishes the principles and guidelines that guide decision-making in all areas of the business and in the relationship with interested parties, with the aim of expanding our positive impact and reducing our adverse impact. To guide our sustainable development strategy, we established our sustainability drivers and focal themes.SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY33 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022We have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes, which These are Sicredi's material themes, that is, the most relevant themes for Sicredi's sustainability. Strengthen our governance model Spread cooperativism and sustainability Promote inclusion and diversity Promote financial education Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Ensure integrated risk management Promote eco-efficient management Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable managementFostering local economy Promote financial inclusion Promote the development of people Contribute to the development of communities 34To direct our Sustainability Strategy and support us in the evolution of sustainability guidelines, we rely on the Sustainable Development Framework. The Reference is the basis for Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, providing indicators that allow us to measure our sustainability performance at national, regional and local levels. Monitoring these results can help us identify points where we have the opportunity to advance the Sustainability agenda. BUILD A MORE PROSPEROUS SOCIETY TOGETHER Sustainability DriversGovernance Sustainability CommitteesSustainable Development Framework Instrument »Relationship and Cooperativism »Local development »Responsible solutions »Social »Economic »Environmental »Governance Pillars of SustainabilityDEVICE STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY 35 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Commitment to the Global Compact and the SDGs Our sustainability strategy is reinforced through our external commitments, which connect our guidelines on the topic to the main global initiatives in the sustainable development agenda. Since 2020, we have been members of the Global Compact, a voluntary action of the United Nations (UN), which provides principles, guidelines, information and tools for promoting the Sustainable Development and Citizenship. By joining the Global Compact we also assume the responsibility of contributing to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, outlined by the UN to engage organizations in goals such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources until 2030. 36 STRATEGY OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable Development Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC believes in the power of working together to promote change positive and develop our society in a sustainable way. The resources raised become credit for other associates in the same region, in a virtuous cycle of economic, social and environmental development. In this way, we generate value and transform the communities in which we are present. The sustainability strategy is used to fulfill the mission, vision and values, providing strategic drivers, which contribute and guide the sustainable development of the business. You The sustainability drivers used are: Relationships and Cooperativism, Responsible Solutions and Local Development. Administrative Headquarters was built with sustainable strategies Marking 34 years of foundation, Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC presented its new Administrative Headquarters to the community in July 2022. An efficient construction, which emerged from the expansion, with the aim of meeting the agencies' business demands and improving the customer experience. associated. The President of Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC, Mario Maurina, explains that this is a project that began in 2015 and was designed for the future. “Given the growth, the new challenges in our area of ​​activity and the changes that have been occurring, we needed a more suitable location so that we could provide the best working conditions for our employees. I believe that in the coming years this structure will be adequate to meet the growth of our cooperative”, reinforced Mario. The administrative headquarters is located in Tapejara/RS, at Rua Olívio Zanini, n° 553, São Paulo neighborhood. The structure has equipment that captures rainwater, which after treatment is ready to be consumed. Furthermore, the solar energy panels reduce net energy consumption to zero and the workrooms have glass walls that allow direct sunlight to enter. With these and other resources, the cooperative reinforces its commitment to sustainability and environmental preservation. This is a work that was planned taking into account the future of generations and the growth of the Cooperative, which has been seen over the last few years. In addition to being modern and efficient, this work aims to leave a positive legacy, strengthening our business model in a sustainable way. 37 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022 solar panels recharging electric cars LEED PLATINUM CERTIFICATION Planned and executed To be a self-sufficient project, the new Administrative Headquarters of Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC will receive the LEED Platinum seal at the end of 2022. With this recognition, Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC reinforces its purpose of expanding the positive impact on society and reducing its adverse impact. LEED - Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is an international certification and environmental guidance system for buildings ¬fications used in more than 160 countries. The objective is to encourage the transformation of projects and works, focusing on the sustainability of their operations. LEED Platinum certification is recognized by the US Green Building Council. 38 39 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 202204 Relationship and Cooperatives40 They are linked to cooperatives through capital contributions and have the right to vote on cooperative decisions through core assemblies, with equal weight , regardless of the volume of resources applied. They are the representatives elected by members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. Society of people, they are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to stimulate the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services typical of a financial institution. Main link with members, they are also the primary decision-making bodies of the Sicredi. Spreads credit cooperatives and supervises affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting development and expansion activities. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Nucleus coordinatorsAssociates is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation of credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to governance structure. The Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic issues. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP /RJ Central Sicredi Brasil Centra l Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Central NorthSicredi Cards* Consortium Administrator Sicredi Insurance Broker Sicredi Asset Administrator SicrediSicredi Guarantor Funds (SFG) The purpose of SFG is contribute for the credibility, development, solvency and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and makes available products and services through the System's centralized risk management structure and through the scaled administration of resources. Its strategic partners are Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Directors.Confederação Sicredi Provides services in Information Technology, operations, administrative services, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and administration of securities portfolios. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Sicredi Foundation Its purpose is to keep the essence of cooperation alive in the culture of our institution through educational, cultural, cooperative and sustainable initiatives, in line with the business strategy. The Sicr edi Foundation counts with a board of trustees. Fiscal Council Rabo P artnerships B.V. and IF C SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE College of Executive Directors Sicr edi Administrative Center (CAS)Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration.It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, the Bank Cooperative and its controlled companies, the Foundation, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores and the Confederation. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of associates.CAS — Sicredi Administrative Center Evaluates, debates and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning in all matters linked or that may be linked to strategic planning and its execution, in addition to deliberating on rules, regulations and others systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Boards. Controlled companies * S icredi Cartões, a company controlled by Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, had its activities absorbed by the Sicredi Confederation, being extinguished on 12/11/2020, and its assets and liabilities were transferred to Banco Sicredi.Confederação Sicredi Banco Cooper active Sicredi Cooper activeFundação Sicredi Sicredi Guarantor Funds esCentraisGRI 102 -18 Strengthen our management model Our governance structure is recognized worldwide in the credit cooperative segment. We are organized into a System, seeking specialization in areas, reducing operational costs, enabling gains in scale and intercooperation and expanding the possibilities of meeting the demands of members. Each entity has specific roles, providing efficiency gains to our strategy, decision-making and the development of internal processes, forming the Sicredi system. SYSTEMIC GOVERNANCE STRUCTURERELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM41 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022They link themselves and the cooperatives by through the contribution of capital and have the right to vote in the cooperative's decisions through core assemblies, with equal weight, regardless of the volume of resources applied. They are the representatives elected by the members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. Society of people, they are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to stimulate the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services specific to a financial institution a. The main link with members, they are also Sicredi's primary decision-making bodies. They disseminate credit cooperatives and supervise affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting development and expansion activities. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Nucleus coordinatorsAssociates is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation by credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to the governance structure. The Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic issues. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP /RJ Central Sicredi Brasil Centra l Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Centro NorteSicredi Cards* Sicredi Consortium Administrator Insurance Broker Sicredi Asset Administrator SicrediSicredi Fundos Garantidores (SFG) The purpose of SFG is to contribute to the credibility, development, solvency and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and makes available products and services through the System's centralized risk management structure and through the scaled administration of resources. Its partners strategic partners Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Directors.Confederação Sicredi Provides services in Information Technology, operations, administrative services, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and administration of securities portfolios. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Sicredi Foundation Its purpose is to keep the essence of cooperation alive in the culture of our institution through of educational, cultural, cooperative and sustainable initiatives, in line with the business strategy. The Sicr edi Foundation has a board of trustees. Fiscal Council Rabo P artnerships B.V. and IF C SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE College of Executive Directors Sicr edi Administrative Center (CAS)Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration.It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, the Bank Cooperative and its controlled companies, the Foundation, the Sicredi Guarantor Funds and the Confederation. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of members.CAS — Sicredi Administrative Center Evaluates, debates and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning in all matters linked to or that may be linked to strategic planning and execution of this, in addition to deliberating on standards, regulations and other systemic matters within the competence of the Exe Directorates ecutivas.Controlled companies * Sicredi Cartões, a company controlled by Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, had its activities absorbed by Confederação Sicredi, being extinguished on 12/11/2020, and its assets and liabilities were transferred to Banco Sicredi.Confederação Sicredi Banco Active Cooperator Sicredi Active CooperationSicredi Foundation Sicredi Guarantor Funds CentralGRI 102 -18 42ASSOCIATES Associates have active participation in the management and development of the business. A every 4 years, during the assembly period, they meet to elect the nucleus coordinators. CORE COORDINATORS The nucleus coordinators are the representatives of the members within the cooperative and they are the ones who elect the members of the board of directors .BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is the body responsible for the cooperative's strategy and for choosing the executive board. Members (elect) Core Coordinators (elect) (select) 1 2 3 5 4Board of Directors Cooperative BoardBoard of Cooperative Fiscal CouncilParticipative Management of the Cooperative EXECUTIVE BOARD The Executive Board is made up of the Executive Director and Director of Operations who are responsible for managing the business of our cooperative enterprise.FISCAL BOARD The Board The inspector is made up of members who have the role of monitoring and supervising the cooperative's accounts. RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM43 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Governance at Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC BOARD OF DIRECTORS FISCAL COUNCIL EXECUTIVE BOARDMeet our Board Members: Standing, from left to right: Mario Maurina, Vicente Favaretto, Laérson Tessari, Rafael Mezzalira, Rogério Luis Fontana, Givanildo Bombarda and Sadi Comiran. Seated from Left to Right: Maiza Bortolozzo, Zilda Terezinha Furlan Figueiredo, Taniamar Gregolin Zanandrea. Meet our Fiscal Advisors: Standing, from left to right: João Antenor Pereira, Mateus Luiz Vidal, Paulo Eriberto Silveira Ramos. Seated from left to right: Valeria Dozolina Zanella Caus, Ademir Elói Reginato and Alessandra Silvestrine. Meet our Directors: From left. to right: Douglas Zanandrea and Paulo Omar Ferronato da Rosa. 44 Pertencer Program Encouraging the participation of members in the Cooperative's decision-making processes, strengthening transparency and democracy, is the main objective of the Program To belong. With it, we engage associates and guide our participatory management model. Year after year, we continue to innovate, especially in technological tools that allow us to improve people's experience at meetings, assemblies and events organized by management. TRANSPARENCY IN RELATIONSHIPS WITH LEADERSHIP The Governance Portal is a communication channel between the Cooperative, core coordinators and advisors. Through it, materials are shared information to support information management with leaders and other associates. Ordinary General Assembly 2021 which was held digitally. RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM45 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022 Assemblies Just as occurred in 2021, in 2022 the Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) and the Extraordinary General Assembly (AGE) took place digitally. The current management understood that, although the pandemic was no longer at a high peak of contagion, it was still necessary care regarding social distancing. The Core Assemblies were held online, from March 15th to 23rd, for all agencies. 5,566 members from 33 agencies participated, representing 6.91% of members. For the future, the technologies and tools developed during the period should continue to support our business and strengthen our management model to further expand member participation.46Nucleo Coordinators The name already reveals it: a cooperative integrates its members in decision-making. This occurs at Sicredi, through the so-called Core Assemblies. They are the fundamental deliberation instance of the management model, as participants are invited to take the lead and take part in decisions that affect the business. Associates are called upon to debate and deliberate Sicredi's main themes, elect their representatives, approve accountability and decide distribution of the results. The decisions of members at core assemblies are taken by their coordinators, representatives elected by the members, to the Ordinary General Assembly. associates cores coordinators and substitutes98 thousand 107 107RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM47 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Encouragement of knowledge In 2022, Center coordinators had the opportunity to participate in a series of lectures promoted by the Cooperativa Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC, in partnership with the Faculty of Cooperativism Technology – ESCOOP. In three lectures held on August 24th, September 14th and October 20th, the following topics were discussed: Cooperative Identity, Cooperative Governance and Sicredi System. It was also a moment of coexistence between the Center Coordinators, the meeting that took place at the administrative headquarters of the cooperative on December 7th. The agenda was preparation for the 2023 assemblies, which will once again take center stage of members.Meeting of Core Coordinators 48Crescer Program We know that there is a positive transformation of cooperativism when it is studied and worked strongly with our stakeholders, and for this reason, we have a series of initiatives to disseminate it. The Crescer Program is one of our main cooperative education fronts, which offers training with the aim of expanding understanding of cooperative societies, their functioning, benefits and differences in relation to other financial institutions. Through the Program, we provide important experiences so that people really get to know us and understand “how to grow”. Promoting cooperative education reinforces our concern in bringing the true cooperative essence to members. RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM 140 classes 2,669 people impacted In November 2022, two meetings were held with around 80 employees representing all agencies, which we call republishers of Crescer. Meetings focused on the holding of Crescer in 2023 in the municipalities where the cooperative operates.49 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022How we encourage cooperativism We seek to strengthen equity and inclusion as a cooperative inserted in the community. Therefore, we constantly carry out actions that involve specific audiences, such as young people, women in agriculture, as well as audiences of micro and small business owners. In 2022 Several actions with this objective were developed. Check out the highlights: On 07/06 we were in São Joaquim holding a chat about Financial Education, with an audience of 28 female entrepreneurs. This event was promoted in partnership with Epagri, highlighting the importance of Financial Education and planning and also disseminating the culture of cooperativism! In October, a meeting was held in Sananduva/RS with undergraduate and postgraduate students from the University Center UNIFAEL. Douglas Zanandrea, Director of Operations at Cooperativa Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC, spoke on the occasion about Cooperativism and also about Sicredi, together with colleagues from Agência Sananduva Centro and Sananduva Operário. On November 4th, it was held at the Cultural Center de Tapejara, a Financial Education Seminar in partnership with Emater. The action was aimed at young audiences. 50Partnerships that promote development Sicredi Altos da Serra believes that the growth of the cooperative comes through the development of the member, and in this way, it seeks to strengthen this connection. RELATIONSHIP AND COOPERATIVISM In 2022, Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC continued to contribute to the development of local companies in the regions in which it operates. With the agreement of business entities, 804 credit operations were carried out, with a portfolio balance of 73 million. This way, entrepreneurs can obtain special conditions for their business and also they rely on the assistance of commercial associations. AGREEMENTS BUSINESS ENTITIES Credit Operations804 Portfolio Balance73 million51 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022We were also partners in 2022, of the course “Keeping an eye on Rural quality”, an initiative of SEBRAE and Cooperativa Aurora Alimentos, with the aim of identifying bottlenecks and the need for practical adjustments in rural companies, providing guidance to rural families. Trainings were carried out with the participation of producers in the poultry chain. KEEPING AN EYE ON RURAL QUALITY ZERO INTEREST We also help smaller enterprises in their economic recovery after the consequences suffered by the pandemic through the State of RS' Zero Interest Program. We granted R$6,593,500.00 in the line, totaling 401 operations.52Promoting inclusion and diversity Providing a diverse and inclusive environment is what we seek to value and respect people as they are. This construction aims to make our emotionally safe spaces for employees who make up the institution's current staff, and also show future talents that we are open to different people, ideas and ways. We have a responsibility to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities for employment and growth, regardless of their social class, sexual orientation, age, gender, race, culture, religion, or whether they have a disability or not. In line with our commitment to the Global Compact, We understand the topic of diversity and inclusion as fundamental to the development of society and the longevity of our business. Employees by gender Employees by age group Average of 33 years old 52% Female41% MaleRELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM53 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 202210 202111 2022In a cooperative context, we encourage the entry of young people into the job market. Vacancies for young apprentices and interns, for example, are great opportunities for teenagers and young people explore their potential. Our program offers vacancies through which those selected can start their career and acquire new experiences and knowledge in the administrative areas of Sicredi. People with Disabilities (PCD)Women in leadership positions TOTAL EMPLOYEES DECEMBER 2022: 369 YOUNG APPRENTICES / INTERNS23% Female 77% Male 2022 2021911 Opportunities54 55 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 202205 Responsible Solutions56RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS SHAGS Promote Financial Education We consider financial education to be an essential tool for promoting sustainable development for members, their businesses and the communities where we are present. Through it, we encourage conscious and prosperous attitudes in money management, encourage entrepreneurship and support small businesses in their process of establishing themselves in the market. 12 3Virtuous cycle of financial education Conscious associates make decisions planned and independent financial plans.Members look for financial solutions to meet their needs Members prosper in their personal and business objectives.57 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis Theater TroupeTo strengthen the theme of Financial Education throughout the cooperative , we worked throughout 2022 on several actions aimed at members and their communities. Initiatives were also carried out to raise awareness of collaborators. The highlight of the actions was the use of artistic resources in the learning model, with four theatrical presentations on financial education led by the Troupe Teatral Fora do Sério, at the headquarters of the Cooperative. The activities took place on November 9th with the participation of 920 elementary and high school students from the municipality of Tapejara. The plot brought the protagonism of a fictitious family, financially disordered, but which finds effective alternatives for achieve goals through planning and organization. 86 in-person events113 lectures, workshops, theatrical presentations4,134 participants 58RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS CONNECTIONS THAT BRING INNOVATION AND BRING COOPERATIVE MEMBERS EVEN CLOSER ExpansionAlthough there are numerous digital options to benefit cooperative members, physical channels that provide eye-to-eye contact, They do not waste space and maintain their value. Practical examples are the establishments authorized to provide services on behalf of Sicredi, the so-called accredited agents. The Altos da Serra RS/SC cooperative currently has 42 Accredited Agents who form a large network where members or non-members can pay water, electricity, telephone bills, billing slips, taxes, make deposits and other banking services with all facility.The partner network also extends to more than 200 partner companies (in the resale and sales of vehicles, construction and renovation, machinery and equipment, solar energy and CDC - furniture and appliances, electronics, aesthetics and health). The objective is to create connections that allow Sicredi to get even closer to members, in addition, generating new business with members and non-members. In 2022 we had 3,178 contracts released, with a total volume of more than R$70 million and more than 1,500 new associates who arrived through our partners. Furthermore, agencies of cooperatives are increasingly adapted and humanized to meet the needs of their members. Knowing this, in 2022, we continued to expand with the start of service in new municipalities and reopenings and improvements to branches already in operation: In Santa Catarina, we opened branches in the cities of Curitibanos, Campo Belo do Sul and São Joaquim. The expansion also takes place in Correia Pinto, where we set up a Business Office. The reopening of a branch also took place in Bom Jesus and in Sananduva- Bairro Operário.Physical channels: 59 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022 Opening Campo Belo do Sul/SC Opening São Joaquim/SCEBusiness office of Correia Pinto/SC Reopening Bom Jesus/RSOpening Curitibanos/SC Reopening Sananduva B .Operário 60Digital Channels Bringing more autonomy and agility to members is everything that Sicredi's digital channels provide to members. Autonomous financial life with digital financial transactions is increasingly another reality. Through technology, we are able to deliver the same experience, human and close, in any relationship channel. Through WhatsApp Enterprise, thousands of members had their needs resolved in 2022, totaling more than 305.33 thousand services at the Cooperative. With the ease of pix, members can transfer, pay or receive amounts immediately at no cost. In 2022, more than 8.4 million transactions were carried out via Pix na Cooperativa.In our application we started to offer new features, suggestions for saving during transactions and several other system improvements, such as modernizing the layout of the card, investment and current account screens.Task Automation is a technology used to automate digital processes or routines. This facility has replaced human interaction in repetitive tasks and allows the system to operate uninterruptedly, with greater agility and precision.RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS Electronic Signature The electronic signature came to give new meaning to people's relationship with the digital environment and most importantly, give an upgrade to sustainability. Documents and contracts that need to be made viable can now be signed digitally and with legal validity equivalent to a handwritten signature. The process is safe and practical as it can be signed at any time and from anywhere through your tablet or smartphone, it brings real-time control and without the need for batteries and piles of paper. 61 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Promoting eco-efficient management We seek to make the operation of our branches and headquarters more sustainable. Disseminate the implementation of good practices related to eco-efficiency and combating climate change. The search for an eco-efficient operation is an essential part of our sustainability strategy. We want to implement in our cooperative offers solutions that combine efficiency in the use of resources and social responsibility. There are several activities in our routine that generate GHG emissions into the atmosphere, both directly and indirectly. The Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory is an accounting and reporting method used by institutions that allows them to identify, quantify and manage GHGs from their processes and activities. At Sicredi, we calculate Inventory Systemic annually, always considering the period from January 1st to December 31st. Carrying out the GHG Inventory is essential to knowing our impacts and being able to act in the fight against climate change. The Sustainability Indicator System, also known as SIS, is an online system that facilitates the collection of data from the GHG Emissions Inventory. GHG. For this calculation, the following indicators are analyzed: air travel, use of air conditioning conditioning and CO2 extinguishers, paper consumption, diesel oil consumption in generator, own vehicles, electricity consumption, reimbursed kilometer and transport of cash and pouches. Emissions neutralization consists of reducing the impacts caused by GHG emissions throughout the year, through support for activities that avoid, reduce or capture greenhouse gas emissions. In 2020, Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC adhered to the SIS report and neutralized the issuance of gases.We neutralize 100% of greenhouse gas emissions from our inventory.62RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS PRODUCT DESCRIPTION Solar Energy CreditSolar Energy Credit is a specific financing product for the acquisition of solar energy technology to assist members interested in using alternative sources and renewable energy generation in its activities. Renewable Energy CreditThe Renewable Energy Credit is intended for financing the acquisition and installation of equipment, works and projects to obtain electrical energy from renewable sources, which do not generate major negative environmental impacts. Energy Efficiency CreditEnergy Efficiency Credit is financing intended for investments to reduce energy consumption by individuals or legal entities. University CreditUniversity Credit is a specific financing product for the acquisition of higher education courses that aims to assist students and associates interested in pursuing higher-level academic training. ABC MaisSearch Program encourages investment in agricultural projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation, in addition to expanding the area of ​​cultivated forests, and encouraging the recovery of degraded areas. MicrocreditFinancing that aims to grant credit to meet the financial needs of individuals and/or legal entities undertaking activities micro-sized production companies using methodology based on direct relationships with entrepreneurs in the place where the economic activity is carried out. Offering financial and non-financial solutions with a positive economic, social and environmental impact Green Economy Green economy is the classification given to financial products and services that enable the improvement of human well-being and social equality, while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. Its main pillars are low carbon emissions, efficient use of resources and social inclusion. Below we provide some examples of our products offered.63 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Credit for solar energy With the growing demand for renewable energy, credit for solar energy has become one of our main products linked to the green economy. Through this solution, members can obtain credit to purchase equipment and technology for capturing solar energy and generating clean electrical energy in your homes, businesses and rural properties. Credit for enterprises led by women A line of credit aimed at micro, small and medium-sized Brazilian companies led by women. The initiative includes the gender factor as a criterion for the use of resources, as well as other social and environmental factors. Sustainable finance Since 2021, we have structured the Operations and Sustainable Finance, with the aim of developing the theme within Sicredi and intensifying fundraising for credit in line with our values ​​and the Sustainability Strategy, through the issuance of bonds linked to social and environmental aspects. Financial bill In June 2022, Sicredi launched the 1st sustainable financial bill in the Brazilian market, raising R$780 million, with the resources being converted into credit for projects aligned with sustainability. The eligibility criteria selected for granting credit were: renewable energy, environmentally sustainable management of living natural resources and land use, green buildings, energy efficiency and clean transportation. Investments In 2021, Sicredi FIC Ações Sustentáveis ​​ESG was launched, Sicredi's first ESG-focused equity fund, aimed at companies aligned with the sustainability strategy and that generate a positive impact on society, in addition to profitability for the member. 64SUSTAINABLE CONSORTIUM Thinking about the socio-environmental impact of our products and services, we have the Sustainable Consortium, focused on the acquisition and construction of container houses and investments in eco-efficient solutions, such as water and sewage treatment, energy efficiency and generation of wind and solar energy .CREDIT FOR FAMILY FARMING Credit for family farming is an important sustainability instrument, as it contributes for income generation and social development of communities. At the same time, the segment is one of the main responsible for food production in Brazil and the world, having the potential to implement sustainable management in production, with a view to reducing environmental impacts. INSURANCE The Cooperativa Sicredi Altos da Serra, constantly evolves in insurance options, in order to keep up with the demands of communities. In addition to thinking about protecting members and their assets, today The products and services offered bring differences. In 2022, in insurance operations, we act in a consultative manner with members, from implementing the proposal to handling claims. We ended 2022 generating peace of mind and security for several members with more than 43 thousand policies in force. In addition to being present with the insurance, indemnifying and repairing values ​​at the time of a loss or accident for members, we also provide premiums for policyholders who have insurance that contains this type of benefit. ATTENTION AND CARE FOR FARMING The year 2022 was a challenging year for regional agribusiness, especially for summer agricultural crops, such as corn and soybeans, which were severely affected in their productivity by the drought that occurred at the beginning of the year, causing losses significant to producers. Sicredi, concerned with maintaining the income of our agribusiness members, offers Agricultural Insurance and also Agricultural Activity Guarantee Program, Proagro, which guaranteed throughout 2022, due to drought, hail and other climatic events, R$ 89,651,926.38 in Insurance and Proagro indemnities for 1,820 thousand contracts, preventing this amount would be a loss to our members and returning this resource to continue circulating in the regional economy. In addition to corn and soybeans, there were compensations for other crops, such as wheat, beans, grapes, apples, etc. SOLUTIONS RESPONSIBLE65 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Ensuring integrated risk management Sicredi has a centralized integrated risk management structure that serves all institutions linked to the System. Based on the lines of defense model, risk teams act independently from the business areas and internal audit and are dedicated to identifying, controlling and mitigating factors that could compromise the sustainability of the business in the short, medium and long term. term, contributing to the maintenance of our relationship of solidity and trust. OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS CONSIDER: FINANCIAL SECURITY FINANCIAL RISKS • credit • market • variation in interest rates for banking portfolio instruments (IRRBB) • liquidity • capital management • socio-environmental NON-FINANCIAL RISKS • operational • business continuity • information security • compliance We work with the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop) with the objective of guaranteeing deposits and enabling financial assistance to cooperative financial institutions with possible liquidity difficulties. We rely on Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, funds made up of contributions from our cooperatives, reimbursements and asset recovery, which have the function of guaranteeing compliance with financial obligations and supporting cooperative development actions. The security of members' investments is attested by the main credit risk rating agencies in the world, which guaranteed Banco Cooperativo Sicredi the following ratings on a national scale: Fitch Ratings; Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.66 67 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022 06 Local Development68Fostering the local economy Being a cooperative financial institution is what differentiates us and brings us closer to our mission. By remaining aligned with our essence, the money raised in a location is converted into credit granted to other members in the same location, creating a virtuous cycle that encourages investment in the cooperative, the inclusion of a greater number of people in the financial system and the strengthening of our members' businesses. As a result, the presence of our cooperative supports local commerce, stimulates income generation and contributes to improving the quality of life of all inhabitants of the community. In the context of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, this Strengthening the local economy has become even more important. LOCAL DEVELOPMENT69 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022Resources reinvested in the community Here at Sicredi Altos da Serra, all resources raised are reinvested in the community, and part of the results generated is distributed among associates. This is the cooperative nature of business. When members take advantage of financial solutions, they strengthen the cooperative and enable the generation of results positive. In 2022, we reached a result of 67.9 million, which supports the cooperative's business while remunerating members and returning to the local economy, generating even more development. R$ 16 million Reinvested in the community, returning to members according to their financial transactions. R$6.3 million was distributed in interest to the capital, sharing the financial results generated by the business with associates and expanding its assets. R$ 2.9 million Destined to FATES to encourage the development of employees and associates, through training courses, events and lectures. R$ 714 thousand Generated in 2022 for the Social Fund with the aim of supporting and enabling projects that originate from the community and seek to add income and improve people's quality of life.70 Learning Ecosystem To efficiently guide the development of our employees, We have a corporate education process that encourages the training of professionals integrated into the cooperative culture and offers a continuous, growing and cumulative learning process. The different levels of training take into account the experience and knowledge of the employee and the role they will perform. We are talking here about our Learning Ecosystem, which constantly encourages us to respond quickly to changes and develop new capabilities. We promote interactive knowledge exchange experiences and networking flexible and adaptable relationships, seeking, from this, increasingly innovative and transformative employees. The cooperative essence of our learning ecosystem makes the learner participate in a virtuous cycle of giving and receiving knowledge: sharing, contributing, teaching, exchanging, learning, unlearning and relearning, all together and integrated. LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Promote the Development of people and Social Responsibility We seek continually develop our employees, always aligned with the principles of cooperativism. We encourage professional training and continue to seek to improve our performance in different ways every day. This effort is reflected in our results in several ways, for example, the achievement of 81.5% in our NPS, a survey that measures associate satisfaction in relation to our business. 71 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022See how the learning ecosystem works InnovabilitySicredi Essence Centrality of the learner Human context of learning Autonomy and Protagonism360 LearningNetwork learningValues ​​of our learning culture72CERTIFICATIONS EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Offered by the Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Markets Entities (ANBIMA), certifications aim to prepare employees, even more , provide financial consultancy to members. Today we have more than 90% of business team with this recognition. In 2022, in our climate survey, we achieved a favorability rating of 88%. This means that Sicredi is seen as an excellent place to work. This result demonstrates employee engagement and the strength of our cooperative essence. It is with this environment that we seek to deliver a business model that increasingly places the associate at the center of everything we do. A milestone for Sicredi was the GPTW award in 2022. The cooperative financial institution with more than 6 million members and presence in all Brazilian states and the Federal District, was awarded fourth place as the best company to work for in the “Financial Institutions - Credit Cooperatives” category Great Place to Work - GPTW. The ranking is published annually and rewards the best companies to work for at a national, regional, sectoral and thematic level. The investigation is carried out through Research of Climate applied annually and analysis of the Book of Practices of each participating company. This year, the survey included the participation of 29 thousand Sicredi employees, who contributed their perception of what it is like to work at the institution, reaching a result (confidence index) of 89%, one percentage point above 2021. In August 2022, Sicredi was certified for the second consecutive year by GPTW and, this year, for the first time it participates in the ranking prepared by consultancy. The highlights of this year's certification covered several dimensions of the questionnaire. In terms of “Pride”, for example, the phrase “Taking everything into account, I would say this is an excellent place to work” received a result of 96 points on a scale of 100, the same score given to the quote “When I see the What we do here, I feel proud.”20 thousand hours In 2022, more than 20 thousand hours were invested in training. 09193 CPA 10 CPA 20 CEA (new modality) 4573 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022FATES SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYThe term “Social Responsibility” refers to transparency in actions, commitment, equality, responsibility, respect, relationships and proactivity. All of this matches what Sicredi has in its DNA. The cooperative DNA is what moves us to pursue actions committed to the social cause and creating value for the population. Therefore, we have developed a series of private social investment, sponsorship and support actions, both of systemic and local origin. To invest resources in assisting members and employees, the cooperative reserves 5% of its financial results in the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES). Find out on which fronts FATES offers assistance: • Technical assistance: supports technical training activities to develop the economic activity of members, improving the conditions of professional activity and supporting family subsistence; • Educational assistance: aims to improve the knowledge of the cooperative's membership and employees with the development of educational activities to disseminate and encourage cooperativism. • Social assistance: aims to improve the lives of associates, their families and employees through social support, with events, sporting and cultural activities, among other initiatives. Find out how we contribute to the development of communities74DEVELOPMENT LOCATION Investment in Social Development The 7th principle of cooperativism is based on interest in the community. It is very well applied by Cooperativa Altos da Serra RS/SC, as actions that promote the economic, environmental and social development of members and the community where they live are promoted through it. These actions occur, for example, with the support of innovative and entrepreneurial initiatives that encourage associations, cooperation and that add income and quality of life for those impacted. Living up to the 7th principle of cooperativism, year after year the cooperative expands the resources available for this purpose and supports various projects that arise in the community. In 2022, we invested in 44 projects with the transfer of R$366,018.00 reais. 44 projects R$ 366,018.0075 SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC 2022A close look at social causes Voluntary actions by employees are also aligned with the 7th principle of cooperativism: social responsibility and interest in the community Volunteer activities, initiated by Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC employees, are aligned with one of the brand's seven principles: interest in the community. Although Cooperate Day, which motivates actions in the month of July, on a specific date, the teams chose to carry out actions throughout 2022. Ascosi - Sicredi Altos da Serra Employee Association, takes a leading role in several actions such as these mentioned above. And this protagonism continues to be consolidated. In the month of December, the association allocated around R$40,000, an amount divided between the cooperative's agencies and the Sureg areas for use in social actions, donations of food, hygiene products, Christmas baskets, toys, socializing with needy children, among others. Several movements took place in favor of social transformations in the communities where we operate. Social concern in this context also concerns sustainability actions. On August 25, employees working at the Administrative headquarters planted fruit tree seedlings near the complex. In addition, several blood donation actions were carried out, with employees going to Hemopasso and Hospital São Vicente de Paulo. Thank you Sicredi Associate, you have reached the end of our 2022 retrospective, presented through this 2022 Annual Report. On these pages, you were able to follow everything we built together with employees, associates and the community during the year. We express our gratitude for the partnership with us and reinforce our commitment to continue providing the best service in line with our purpose, which is to keep the essence of cooperativism alive in the culture of our institution through educational, cultural, social and sustainable initiatives. Do you want to stay up to date with everything that happens in the cooperative? Follow our networks! Instagram Facebook Website Open your account Investment Channel on TelegramEXPEDIENTE Credit Cooperative with Free Admission of Members Altos da Serra Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC Coordination: Vanessa Soccol Editorial: Kelly Regina Gazola Filippi and Gabriela Krug Layout: Tiaraju de Almeida - MTE/ RS 16.669 Textual review: Bianca Damacena Photos: Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC archives Printing: Tapejarense Indústria Gráfica - Print run: 1000 Circulation: 44 municipalities - Frequency: AnnualWe want to be close to you at all times. Here you can find the Sicredi closest to you. sicredi.com.br/site/localizar-agencia Open your account:Service network