2021 Annual Report Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC2 Annual Report 2021 MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP ................................... ............ 08 CHAPTER 1 - PRESENTATION »Sicredi System .............................. .................................... 10 »Our Cooperative .......... .................................................... 16 »Highlights of 2021 ........................................ .................. 20 CHAPTER 2 - RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM »Strengthen the our management model ................................. 24 »Spreading cooperativism and sustainability ..... .............. 33 »Promoting inclusion and diversity ............................ ....... 36 CHAPTER 3 - RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS »Integrating opportunities and risk management into financial solutions and operating with eco-efficiency ....................... ........ 40 »Eco-efficient operation ...................................... .................. 50 »Ensuring management integrated risk management .................................. 51 »Promoting financial education ....... .................................... 52 CHAPTER 4 - LOCAL DEVELOPMENT »Fostering the local economy ..... ............................................... 56 »Fostering human capital , social and intellectual in regional action .............................................. .................................... 58 SummarySummary4 ​​Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC WHAT YOU ARE GOING FIND HERE Chapter 1 INTRODUCTION In this chapter, we present Sicredi and the objectives of the report covering: • Sicredi System; • Our differences; • Main Awards and Recognition; • Our Cooperative; • How we generate value; • Our highlights for 2021.Chapter 2 RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM We present how we generate value by strengthening our cooperative business model, including: • Our governance structure; • Participatory management of Cooperative; • The Belonging Program and other initiatives to spread cooperativism; • Safety and ethics initiatives; • Cooperative Education and our actions to promote inclusion and diversity.5 Message from leadership Chapter 4 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT We address the positive transformations that our business generates in the communities where we operate, including: • How our close operations foster the local economy; • The impact of our initiatives for the development of collaborators in the human capital of the regions; • Social initiatives such as Fates and Fundo Social.Chapter 3 RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS We demonstrate how our products and services and our sustainable operation generate value, describing: • Our relationship with associates; • The expansion of the Cooperative with business offices; • Service on physical and digital channels; • Associate satisfaction measured through the NPS survey; • Our products and services; • The green economy and lines of credit that generate socio-environmental benefits; • The Cooperation program at Ponta do Lápis and other financial education initiatives.PresentationPresentation01Chapter 7 The objective of this document is to show how the Cooperative Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC impacted and stimulated members, collaborators, communities and others public in 2021, supporting the sustainable development of our region. We will also show our adherence to the Global Compact of the Organization of United Nations (UN) and, therefore, the report reports our contribution according to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs can be seen on page 64. Through this publication, we seek to promote dialogue between cooperatives and members, reinforcing the commitment to transparency and responsibility, two essential values ​​of cooperatives. Happy reading!8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP Dear associates, On behalf of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, we address all associates, collaborators, partners and, especially, our communities. The year 2021 will be remembered by us as a year of recovery, both economic and social, as well as hope and renewal. We ended this cycle of challenges full of gratitude and excited about everything that, together, we were able to achieve and deliver to our communities. When we remember our past, we are proud of the paths we follow through cooperativism. Even during the pandemic caused by Covid-19, we were able to meet people's financial needs. We replanned our directions and focused our efforts on maintaining the quality of our service, whether through our physical branches, which have always had their doors open, or in the virtual environment with the variety of channels and technologies we have available. We adapted our business to be even more efficient. Our positioning was maintained throughout the year and reinforced our essence. As a cooperative financial institution, we have always been concerned about people. Today, with 322 employees and almost 80 thousand associates, we continue to invest our efforts in close and active relationships, consolidating our operating model by obtaining an 82.6% satisfaction rate from our associates in the NPS survey.Our area of ​​activity also evolved in 2021. We opened two business offices, one located in Curitibanos and another in São Joaquim, in addition, we opened a new agency in Anita Garibaldi. Always valuing eye to eye and solid relationships, close to the entire community. The virtuous cycle of cooperativism continued alive, through our solutions. In 2021 man - we had a secure deposit portfolio, which Mario A. Maurina Chairman of the Board of Directors9 Our mission As a cooperative system, value relationships, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Our vision To be recognized by society - as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with growth sustainable development of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Our values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business. • Respect for the individuality of the member. • Valuing and developing people. • Preservation of the institution as a system. • Respect for official and internal regulations. • Efficiency and transparency in management enabled us to meet local demand. Our credit portfolio grew 47%, reaching the R$1.7 billion mark, demonstrating our ability to contribute to the economic development of our region in a sustainable way. Furthermore, with our Financial Education program, we were able to raise awareness people about their relationship with money, developing habits and attitudes that contribute to a more sustainable financial life. On the other hand, through the Social Fund, we support several projects in our community that aim to add income and generate a better quality of life. Year after year, we reaffirm our purpose of building, together, a more prosperous society. These advances and good results are only possible with the commitment of our teams and the active participation of our associates, to whom we are grateful. We will move on to a new year together, increasingly looking at the reality of each region, understanding their particularities and focused on generating the positive impact and difference we want to make in people's lives.10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC SICREDI SYSTEM We are the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. We were born in Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul, in 1902 and, since then, our purpose is one thing: building, together, a more prosperous society. In total, there are 108 cooperatives that operate autonomously and are organized in this national system that guarantees security and solidity to members. Our business consists of capturing resources from members and lending them to other members in the same regions, ensuring that such resources remain in the local community and stimulating sustainable development. We offer more than 300 financial products and services in a unique way simple and close for you, your company and agribusiness. 5.5 million associates 2.2 thousand branches 25 States and the Federal District 30,000 employees R$ 197.6 billion in assets R$ 25.2 billion in net worth Data referring to month of December/21.System numbers11 RSPRMS SPMG RJESGOMTROACAMRR PAAP MA PICE TO BASEALPEPBRN SC12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC OUR DIFFERENTIALS Purpose To build, together, a more prosperous society. Mission as a system cooperative, value the relationship, offer financial solutions to add income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Inspirational 2030 Indicates the aspiration of making Sicredi a leading institution in local and sustainable development.13 Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective system. Values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a system; • Respect for official and internal standards; • Efficiency and transparency in management. Principles of cooperativism • Voluntary and free membership; • Democratic management by members; • Economic participation of associates; • Autonomy and independence; • Education, training and information; • Intercooperation; • Interest in the community.14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC BNDES Ranking This ranking is prepared by the BNDES itself and refers to financial agents. We usually achieve important highlights such as these: • 1st place in total indirect PF operations; • 1st place in total Federal Government Agricultural Programs; • 1st place Pronaf Investimento; • 1st place Inovagro; • 1st place Moderagro; • 1st place Pronamp Investimento; • 2nd place in total Indirect Operations. GPTW Certification In August 2021, Sicredi became a company certified by GPTW, being able to participate, from 2022, in the GPTW ranking that lists the best companies to work for in Brazil . With an approval rate of 88%, being certified already proves to be an important achievement for a company of Sicredi's size and scope. Focus - Annual Ranking of Central Bank Projections The Central Bank publishes an annual ranking of the most prominent financial institutions in economic projections throughout the year. Sicre - di was featured for 4 years in a row. For the second year in a row, Sicredi is the institution that had the greatest presence in the lists of the five institutions that came closest to achieving the indicators, being the only one to appear in five categories of the ranking. In addition to the annual, the BC also publishes the ranking monthly and the Sicredi was highlighted in every month of the year. AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 15 Agtech Garage Award Sicredi was the winner of the AgTech Garage Awards, an award held by one of the largest innovation hubs in Latin America for agribusiness, AgTech Garage. The award-winning case involves the development of a tool for rural management, built in partnership with the startup Elysios in the first edition of the startup empowerment program. Biggest and Best in the Exam guide Best & Biggest 2021, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, one of the structures that make up the cooperative financial institution, ranked 15th among the Largest Banks that are part of the guide. Prepared since 1974, the yearbook, which this year has a partner from Ibmec, presents the largest companies in Brazil based on the evaluation of economic and financial criteria, growth and adoption of ESG practices. Época 360 Guide prepared by the magazine in partnership with Fundação Dom Cabral. A cooperative financial institution ranked 8th in the sectoral ranking of Banks, a position influenced by the 2nd place in Corporate Governance within the sector. Sicredi also ranked 6th in People, 8th in Innovation, 10th in Sustainability, 11th in Future Vision and 15th in Financial Performance, among others. Value 1000 The institution ranked 9th in the ranking of the 100 Largest Banks in the yearbook, maintaining the same position in relation to the ranking of last year. In addition, Sicredi also stood out in 11 other categories of the guide, which considers the combined balance of the System. In highlights, it ranked 4th among the 20 most Profitable on Equity and 7th in Credit Operations, Total Deposits. 16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC OUR COOPERATIVE Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC A cooperative financial institution is an enterprise made by people for people. Our cooperative was idealized based on the collective needs of people based on the universal principles of cooperativism. In 1988, when it was taking its first steps, it only served rural producers. Today, it serves more than 79 thousand members from all segments of society, whether in the countryside or the city. Over these 33 years, we have evolved and grown together. We are proud to say that we are close to our associates, positively impacting the regions where we operate in the north of Rio Grande do Sul and West of Santa Catarina. We have financial solutions that cooperate with people's lives in an agile, close and human way. We greatly value transparency and seek a quality and lasting relationship that adds value to people and transforms realities. 79.9 thousand associates 29 municipalities 31 agencies 2 business offices 322 employees R$ 2 billion in assets R$ 261 million in net worth Data referring to the month of December/21. Numbers of the Sicredi High School ltoCampo Belo do SulCerro Negr oAnita GaribaldiCelso Ramo sZorté a Abdo m BatistaVargemBrunópolisCutitibanos São José do Cerrito Correia PintoPonte Alta Palmeira Lage s Bom Jesus Cambará do SulSanto Expedito do SulTupanc ido Sul Vila Lângaro Santa Cecília do SulSC RS Agency s Business Office sAdministrative Headquarters18 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC HOW WE GENERATE VALUE We believe in the strength of credit cooperatives to generate positive changes in society as one all. Therefore, while we develop financial solutions that support members in an increasingly dynamic and digital environment, we seek to maintain our roots in the principles and values ​​of cooperativism, reinforced through programs that expand our positive impact. In 2021, it was necessary to closely monitor the reality of the regions in which we are present to support the local economic cycle and reduce the impact of the crisis caused by Covid-19 on the lives of our associates. In this sense, we offer a wide portfolio of products, services and channels (physical and digital) that meet your financial needs.Our solutions financial For you • Credit and Debit Card • Exchange • Digital Certification • Credit • Consortiums • Current Account • Digital Account (Woop Sicredi) • Automatic debit • Authorized direct debit • Investments • Payments and receipts • Pix (instant payments) • Savings • Pensions • InsuranceFor your company • Foreign exchange • Business Cards • Digital certification • Billing • Consortiums • Current account • Credit • Credit for investment BNDES • Check custody • Home banking • Financing • Payroll • Investments • Card machine • Corporate Pensions • Pix (instant payments) • Insurance • Payment and receipt solutions19 We also have initiatives and programs aimed at expanding our impact with associates and communities , which help us to comply with two principles of cooperativism: 5th - Education, training and information and 7th - Interest in the Community. Our non-financial solutionsFor the your agribusiness • Foreign exchange • Credit and Debit Card • Digital Certification • Consortia • Current Account • Credit for investment BNDES • Rural Credit • Financing • Investments • Payments and receipts • Pix (instant payments) • Savings • Insurance Channels • Agencies • Accredited agent • Sicredi application • Sicredi culture of credit cooperativism through cooperative education. The objective is for the member to understand their role as part of this business, qualifying their participation in the cooperative enterprise. It encourages the effective participation of members in the decision-making bodies of their cooperative, such as assemblies. We seek to promote a healthy and more conscious financial life among our members, employees and communities through themes that involve financial education. The Social Fund supports initiatives that promote entrepreneurship and innovation, associations, economic, environmental and social development through cooperation, contributing to adding income and improving the quality of life of members and society in the region of the Cooperative.20 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC HIGHLIGHTS IN 2021 Expansion of the Cooperative Business Partner Network This year, we made progress in creating a local network of Business Partners, which in addition to encouraging the local economy, brings even more convenience to our associates who wish to purchase goods and finance them directly from the partner company. The simplicity of contracting, with the use of an electronic signature, allows the associate to resolve everything in the store on the same day, without having to visit one of our branches. Today our network of partners is working with the Vehicle Financing, Construction and Reform, Solar Energy and others. It is also possible to become a member directly through this channel. Água SantaTapejaraIbiaçáCharru a SananduvaSão J oãoda UrtigaPaim Filh oMachadinho CaciqueDobl eSão J osédo Our oBarracãoCampos Novo s EsmeraldaPinhalda Serra Many CapõesVacaria Monte Alegre dos Campos JaquiranaSão J osédos Ausente sBom Jardimda SerraSão J oaqui mUrupem aPainel Capão A ltoCampo Belo do Sul CerroNegr oAnitaGaribaldiCelsoRamo sZorté a Abdo mBatistaVargemBrunópolisCutitibanos São J osédo Cerrito Correia PintoPonte Alta Palmeira Lage s Bom Jesus Cambará do SulSantoExpeditodo SulTupanc ido Sul VilaLângaro Santa Cecíliado SulSC RS Agency s Business Office sAdministrative Headquarters Maintaining our purpose of bringing cooperativism to our entire area of ​​activity, in 2021, we continue expanding our commitment to members. We opened two business offices, one located in Curiti - Banos and the other in São Joaquim. Furthermore, we opened a new branch in Anita Garibaldi. Always valuing close relationships with people, without giving up the technology that makes our daily lives so much easier. We closed 2021 with 31 branches and two business offices and, for 2022, our expansion planning will continue taking Sicredi to new municipalities.21 Financial Education Through the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis program, we seek to make people aware that we can have a healthy and sustainable finances - tempting. In 2021, we carried out several actions on this front with teachers from municipal schools, students, entities, partner companies and fairs and events that involve the entire community. We also encourage the qualification of our employees so that they can multiply this topic for society. Digital Transformation Our model of having the member at the center of our cooperative requires a new mindset in relation to the way we deliver our solutions. In 2021, we continued to deliver our digital transformation, which involves greater understanding of the changes that are happening in society, with the development of a culture of internal innovation and also in new technological deliveries, which allow associates new experiences, simpler and more fluid, such as the advancement of electronic signatures and accounts that already use our new application, Sicredi X. WhatsApp Interprise In 2021, Sicredi evolved its communication channels - relationships and WhatsApp has become much more than a means of communication, evolving into a space where customer service, transactions and business take place. This transformation took place through several new functionalities of our virtual assistant, Theo, and also through the reorganization of our service at the cooperative, with the creation of a central team, bringing many more possibilities and convenience to our members who today take your doubts, resolve problems and access our solutions through WhatsApp. 02Chapter The cooperative model is the great differentiator of our business, with transparent, participatory and democratic management. Through it, we build a more prosperous business and society together. Find out how we generate value by strengthening cooperativism and spreading it among associates and communities. Relationships and cooperativism Focus Themes: • Strengthen our management model; • Spread cooperativism and sustainability; • Promote diversity and inclusion.24 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC They are linked to the cooperatives through capital contributions and have the right to vote on the cooperative's decisions through the assemblies core readings, with equal weight, regardless of the volume of resources applied. They are the representatives elected by the members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperation rative.Society of people, they are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to stimulate the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services typical of a financial institution. The main link with members, they are also Sicredi's primary decision-making bodies. They disseminate credit cooperatives and supervise affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting development and expansion activities. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Nucleus coordinatorsAssociates is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation by credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to the governance structure. The Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic issues. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP /RJ Central Sicredi Brasil Centra l Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Centro NorteSicredi Cards* Consortium Administrator Sicredi Insurance Broker Sicredi Asset Administrator SicrediSicredi Guarantee Funds (SFG) The purpose of SFG is to contribute for the credibility, development, solvency and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Bank Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and makes products and services available through the System's centralized risk management structure and through the scaled administration of resources. Its strategic partners are Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Directors.Confederação Sicredi Provides services in Information Technology, operations, administrative services, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and administration of securities portfolios and mobile values ​​. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Sicredi Foundation Its purpose is to keep the essence of cooperation alive in the culture of our institution through educational, cultural, cooperative and sustainable initiatives, in line with the business strategy. The Sicr edi Foundation has a board of trustees. Fiscal Council Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IF C SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE College of Executive Directors Center Administrative Sicredi (CAS)Monitors compliance with legal and statutory duties of the administration. It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and its controlled companies, the Foundation, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores and the Confederation. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of members.CAS — Sicredi Administrative Center Evaluates, debates and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning in all matters linked or that may be linked to strategic planning and its execution, in addition to deliberating on standards, regulations and other systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Boards. Controlled companies * S icredi Cartões, a company controlled by Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, had its activities absorbed by Confederação Sicredi, being extinguished on 11/12/2020, and its assets and liabilities were transferred to Banco Sicredi.Confederação Sicredi Banco C active operator Sicredi Cooper activesFundação Sicredi Sicredi Funds Guarantor esCentraisGRI 102 -18 STRENGTHEN OUR MANAGEMENT MODEL Our governance structure is recognized worldwide in the credit cooperative segment. We are organized into a System, seeking to specialize areas, reducing operational costs, enabling gains in scale and intercooperation and expanding the possibilities of meeting the demands of members. Each entity has roles specific, providing gains in efficiency to our strategy, decision making and development of internal processes, forming the Sicredi system. SYSTEMIC GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Related ODS:25 They link themselves and cooperatives through the provision of capital and t have the right to vote on cooperative decisions through core assemblies, with equal weight, regardless of the volume of resources applied. They are the representatives elected by the members. Have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. Society of people, are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to stimulate the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services typical of a financial institution. Main link with members, they are also Sicredi's primary decision-making bodies. They disseminate credit cooperativism and carry out supervision of affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting development and expansion activities. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Nucleus coordinatorsAssociates is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation by credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to the governance structure. The Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic topics. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP /RJ Central Sicredi Brasil Centra l Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Central NorthSicredi Cards* Consortium Administrator Sicredi Insurance Broker Sicredi Asset Administrator SicrediSicredi Guarantor Funds (SFG) The purpose of SFG is contribute to credibility, development, solvency health and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and makes available products and services through the System's centralized risk management structure and through the scaled administration of resources. Its strategic partners are Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Directors.Confederação Sicredi Provides services in Information Technology, operations, administrative services management, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and administration of securities portfolios. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Sicredi Foundation Its purpose is to keep the essence of cooperation alive in the culture of our institution through educational, cultural, cooperative and sustainable initiatives, in line with the business strategy. The Sicr edi Foundation has a board of trustees. Rabo Partnerships Fiscal Council B.V. and IF C SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE College of Executive Directors Sicr edi Administrative Center (CAS)Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration. It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and its companies subsidiaries, the Foundation, Sicredi Fundos Garantidors and the Confederation. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of members.CAS — Centro Administrativo Sicredi Avalia, d discusses and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning on all matters linked or that may be linked to strategic planning and its execution, in addition to deliberating on standards, regulations and other systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Boards .Controlled companies * S icredi Cartões, a company controlled by Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, had its activities absorbed by the Sicredi Confederation, being extinguished on 11/12/2020, and its assets and liabilities were transferred to Banco Sicredi.Confederação Sicredi Banco C ooper active Sicredi Cooper activeSicredi Foundation Sicredi Guarantor Funds esCentraisGRI 102 -18 26 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC Associates Associates have active participation in business management and development. Every 4 years, during the assembly period, they meet to elect core coordinators. Core Coordinators Core coordinators are the representatives of the members of the cooperative and they are the ones who elect the members of the board of directors. Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the body responsible for the cooperative's strategy and for choosing the executive board. Members (elect) Core Coordinators (elect)(select) 1 2 3 5 4 Board of Directors Cooperative Board of Directors Cooperative Fiscal Council Board PARTICIPATORY COOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT Executive Board The Executive Board is made up of the Executive Director and Director of Operations who are responsible for managing the business of our cooperative enterprise. Fiscal Council The Fiscal Council is made up of associates who have the role of monitoring and supervising the cooperative's accounts.GOVERNANCE AT SICREDI ALTOS DA SERRA RS/SC Board of Directors Fiscal Council Executive BoardMeet our Board Members: Standing, on the left. to right: Sérgio Poletto, Laerson Tessari, Egídio Loregian, Mario Antonio Maurina, Sadi Comiran, Givanildo Bombarda, Rafael Mezzalira, Rogério Luis Fontana. Seated, left. to right: Vicente Favaretto, Zilda Terezinha Furlan Figueiredo, Taniamar Gregolin Zanandrea, Maiza Iandra Bortolozzo. Meet our Fiscal Advisors: Standing, left. to right: Paulo Eriberto Silveira Ramos, Mateus Luiz Vidal, Ademir Elói Reginato, João Antenor Pereira. Sitting, left. to right: Acladi Veronez and Madalena Miotto. Meet our Directors: From left. to right: Paulo Omar Ferronato da Rosa and Douglas Zanandrea. 28 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC BELONGING PROGRAM Through the Pertencer Program, the aim is to encourage the participation of members in the Cooperative's decision-making processes, strengthening transparency and democracy. With it, we engage associates and guide our participatory management model. In recent years, we have continued to implement new and modern technologies that allow us to improve people's experience at meetings, assemblies and events organized by management. Transparency in the relationship with LEADERSHIPS The Governance Portal is a communication channel between the Cooperative, core coordinators and advisors. Through it, informative materials are shared to support information management with leaders and other associates. The 2021 Ordinary General Assembly was held in a digital. Ordinary General Assembly 2021 which was held digitally.29 ASSEMBLY Core assemblies are the maximum moment of participation, in which members take the lead and participate in the cooperative's decisions. In them, the main themes are debated and deliberated, representatives are elected, accountability is approved and the distribution of results is decided, among other issues. In 2021, thinking about everyone's well-being, we adapted our model and carried out the digital assembly once again, we intensified the use of technologies and digital channels, allowing discussion and deliberation by members remotely. In total, 4,401 members participated in the assemblies, representing 6.76% of the base. For the future, the technologies and tools developed during the period should continue to support our business and strengthen our management model to further expand member participation.30 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC CORE COORDINATORS Members participate in the decisions of their cooperative through core assemblies. They are the fundamental deliberation instance of our management model, as participants are invited to take the lead and take part in decisions that affect the business. Associates are called upon to debate and deliberate Sicredi's main themes, elect their representatives, approve the accountability and decide the distribution of results, among others. The decisions of the members in the core assemblies are taken by their coordinators, representatives elected by the members, to the Ordinary General Assembly. associates core coordinators and substitutes79.9 thousand 102 10231 ETHICS The values ​​and principles of cooperativism underlie our operations since the origins of the business and govern our sustainable development. These values ​​and principles are described in the Code of Conduct and the Re - internal development, influencing the behavior of all people who, directly or indirectly, are part of Sicredi. The Code of Conduct describes our commitment to respecting people. It brings a map of values ​​and a set of guidelines that serve as a reference for conduct followed by all our employees and guides our positioning on sustainability issues. In the compliance governance network, we promote awareness actions for all collaborators. At Sicredi Aprendi, we offer short courses on the topic, as well as mandatory training applied when hiring new employees, which is part of the Basic Training Track. In 2021, two training courses were made available in e-learning format developed by the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban). They deal with training to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. In our Basic Training Track, we have of a video that addresses the importance of being compliant and presents Sicredi's Compliance program, focusing on the pillars of prevention, detection and correction. Training 32 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC SECURITY With the increasing use of our digital relationship channels, we continue to prioritize the cybersecurity of our services and products. In 2021, we worked on the Security Evolution Program, the highlights of which were: Modernization of our digital security architecture, expanding security levels from software development to account opening and transactions. Improving our cyber attack prevention strategy. Expanding the security of cloud environments. Update of our access management model. Increase in new preventive monitoring practices, making it possible to monitor the growth of channels while maintaining an adequate level of security. Implementation of new controls to prevent information leakage. Data protection In continuity with the Data Protection and Privacy Program, which aims to create adequate levels of protection to comply with the General Personal Data Protection Law (LGPD), the process began in 2019 and is structured based on management integrated risk management. Throughout the year, we carried out a series of actions within the Program, such as: • Identification of the cooperative's Data Processing Operations; • Formalization of responsible for the topic; • Insertion of clauses on data protection and privacy in contracts with suppliers; • Creation of a database for consent management; • Carrying out training and awareness actions on the topic.33 SPREADING COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITY Cooperative Education We believe in the capacity for positive transformation of cooperativism when worked with our stakeholders and, therefore, we have a series of initiatives to disseminate it. The Crescer Program is our main cooperative education front, which offers training with the aim of expanding understanding about cooperative societies, their functioning, benefits and differences in relation to other financial institutions. Includes content aimed at members, non-members, advisors, center coordinators and collaborators. In the case of associates, the materials are intended for the various moments of their relationship with our cooperatives. In 2021 we adapted the Program format to meet the most diverse realities, we had face-to-face meetings following all health recommendations and we also created materials for video versions, with narration and animation, exploring the technologies and tools we use in our business. In 2021 we held 5 training classes for the Crescer Program, totaling 157 participants. Related SDG: Turma do Crescer in Jaquirana Turma do Growing in Curitibanos34 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC PARTNERSHIPS THAT PROMOTE COOPERATIVISM Following the motto that entrepreneurship is cooperation, in 2021, the Cooperative carried out 262 management consultancies to support member companies. In addition, he taught 3 Empretec courses, seeking the development of managers. Sicredi Altos da Serra believes that the growth of the cooperative comes through the development of the member, and in this way, it seeks strengthen this connection. In 2021, Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC continued to contribute to the growth of local companies in the regions in which it operates. With the agreement of business entities, 800 credit operations were carried out, with a portfolio balance of R$85 million. In this way, entrepreneurs obtain special conditions for their business and also count on the assistance of commercial associations.SEBRAE Partnership Business Entities AgreementEducation Work Financial project carried out in partnership with Epagri de São Joaquim to manage rural properties with young people.35 SUSTAINABILITY We understand sustainability as business management with a focus on expanding the positive impact we cause, reducing adverse effects and generating value for associates, employees, communities and other interested parties. Our Sustainability Policy aims to establish principles and guidelines to guide decision-making in all areas of the business, considering economic, social and environmental opportunities and challenges. To put our sustainability strategy into practice, we consider it essential to expand employees' understanding of this topic and its relationship with the business. With this objective, in 2021, we updated our basic sustainability training at Sicredi with the contents of the new Sustainability Policy. The topic is also covered in other training, such as the Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) Inventory course, whose objective is to engage and expand employees' knowledge on Climate Change and GHG Emissions Inventory. We also carry out several actions in our agencies that demonstrate, in practice, our performance on the topic. Our policy can be accessed here: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/sobre-nos/sistência/ Sustainability training36 Report Annual 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC PROMOTE INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY We seek to build a diverse and inclusive environment, which values ​​and respects people as they are. This construction aims not only to make our spaces emotionally safe for the employees who make up the institution's current staff, but also to show future talents that we are open to different people, ideas and ways. We have a responsibility to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities for employment and growth, regardless of your social class, sexual orientation, age, gender, race, culture, religion or whether you have a disability or not. In line with our commitment to the Global Compact, we understand the topic of diversity and inclusion as fundamental for the development of society and the longevity of our business. Employees by gender Employees by age group4.29% 3.07% 36.50% 44.48%11.66% over 50 years oldfrom 41 to 50 years oldfrom 31 to 40 years oldfrom 21 to 30 years oldup to 20 years old56.13% Female43.87% MaleODS Related:37 Here at the cooperative, we encourage young people to enter the job market. Vacancies for young apprentices and interns, for example, are great opportunities for teenagers and young people to explore their potential. Our program offers vacancies through which those selected can start their career and acquire new experiences and knowledge in the administrative areas of Sicredi.New leaders in 2021Women in management positions leadership Young apprentices and interns22% Female78% Male 71% Female29% Male“Being diverse and inclusive” is one of the objectives that became part of our 2023 Strategy. We know that we still have to evolve. However, it is already possible to observe an improvement in some indicators, such as the percentage of women and young people in leadership spheres. Opportunities 8 202010 2021Responsible solutions03Chapter In line with our sustainable principles and commitments, our products and services support member prosperity. At the same time, in our operations, we seek to mitigate negative socio-environmental effects and strengthen positive impacts. Learn how our operations, products and services generate value for associates, society and the environment. Focus Themes: • Integrate opportunities and risk management into financial solutions and operate with eco-efficiency; • Eco-efficient operation; • Ensure integrated risk management; • Promote the Financial Education.40 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC INTEGRATE OPPORTUNITIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS AND OPERATE WITH ECO-EFFICIENCY Expansion of the Cooperative We continue 2021 focused on expanding our cooperative, providing opportunities for more people to learn about and be part of cooperativism. In Santa Catarina, we operate with business offices in Curitibanos and São Jo - Aquim. We also opened a new branch in the municipality of Anita Garibaldi. Opening by Anita Garibaldi Business Office São Joaquim Inauguration by Anita Garibaldi Business Office CuritibanosODS Related: 41 Reopenings We invested in the development of a series of improvements in our physical channels, such as expanding the portfolio of transactions available at the ATM, reducing the need for trips to the human teller. We have also expanded the times and days available for transactions at the ATM, in order to offer services members for longer, and we have increased the limit values ​​for the transaction of check deposits and withdrawals without a card. We have also included an ATM news screen, in which we communicate important issues to members and we created an even closer relationship.Reopening of the Many Capões Agency Reopening of the Paim Filho AgencyReopening of the São José do Ouro Agency Reopening of the Barracão AgencyWe also updated the business model relationship, delivering an even more modern and collaborative environment for the agencies in Barracão, São José do Ouro, Paim Filho and Many Capões.42 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC DIGITAL CHANNELS Our digital channels seek to offer greater autonomy, agility and convenience for members. During the Covid-19 pandemic, these technologies were essential to maintain the service and progress of people's financial lives. With the possibility of carrying out each more and more financial transactions are carried out digitally, we offer members autonomy to choose which channel they want to be served through. This way, we are able to deliver the same experience, human and close, in any relationship channel. We therefore use the modernization of our processes and systems to maintain and deepen our roots in the principles of cooperativism. We call the combination of physical and digital experience physical. In our application, we now offer new functionalities, suggestions for saving during transactions and several other system improvements, such as modernizing the layout of card, investment and current account screens. Through WhatsApp Interprise, more than 43 thousand members had their needs resolved in 2021, totaling 140 thousand services provided to the cooperative. With the ease of Pix, members can transfer, pay or receive amounts immediately, at no cost. In 2021, more than 470 thousand transactions were carried out via Pix at the Cooperativa. And in our digital account, Woop Sicredi, the member has the opportunity to live the experience of an online credit cooperative, following the initiatives, meeting the leaders, participating in events and, of course, carrying out your financial transactions.43 Open finance Some advantages of Open Finance: Member satisfaction We always seek to provide differentiated service to our members, through a close and agile relationship, carried out both physically and digitally. To measure the level of satisfaction of our associates, as well as understand where and how we can increasingly improve our processes and services, we use the Net Promoter Score (NPS) methodology, created by Bain & Company and applied by companies around the world. Our NPS index has been evolving and improving every year. In 2021, we achieved 82.64% satisfaction with our services, brand very important, as it represents, in practice, the acceptance of the cooperative model and the good relationship practices that the cooperative has been adopting. Open Finance is the open financial system that brings more transparency and autonomy to your financial life. It is the evolution of Open Banking. You can now share your data through the digital channels of financial institutions to receive offers for products and services such as credit cards, loans and investments. It is you who decides: what the data, the objective, the institutions and the period will be. All this in a practical and safe way. The entire process is regulated by the Central Bank and you will be protected by the General Personal Data Protection Law (LGPD). Innovation in the segment: Open Finance allows institutions to evolve with the solutions they already work with and facilitates the creation of even better services. Data sharing: You have autonomy and complete freedom! You are who chooses what data and with whom they want to share it. Experience: By sharing your data, you allow the institution to better understand your needs and make personalized offers with more efficient service. www.sicredi.com.br/site/open-financeTo find out more about Open Finance visit our website: Evolution of NPS 74.8% 201978.7% 202082.6% 202144 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Pronampe CreditMeans of PaymentTo increase further our positive impact, we seek to develop increasingly sustainable financial solutions, with attractive rates and capable of meeting the needs of our members. Throughout 2021, we were present in people's lives through the most diverse lines of business. Credit is one of the main instruments made available by Sicredi to help members in the development of their economic activities. Our credit portfolio grew 47%, reaching - the mark of R$ 1.7 billion in total credit. This demonstrates our ability to contribute to the country's economic development. Currently, our portfolio is made up of R$855 million in commercial credit and R$910 million in rural and targeted credit. In terms of credit lines, we can highlight the National Support Program for Micro and Small Businesses (Pronampe). Line aimed at micro and small businesses, so that small businesses access working capital during the pandemic with the guarantee of the Pronampe Operations Guarantee Fund (FGO). For this line, we had two phases with limits offered to members, totaling 986 operations and a volume of R$41 million financed. The electronic payment method is an important way of reducing the circulation of cash in cash, with more sustainable financial operations, without the risks generated in its movement and with less environmental impact, which contributes to development and security in the regions in which we operate. In 2021, even with the economic downturn, the card market grew 33% in revenue in Brazil, according to the Brazilian Association of Credit Card and Service Companies (Abecs). Throughout the year, we expanded our card base by 25.37%, with more than 16 thousand cards issued, and we grew 43.25% in revenue, totaling more than R$ 23.7 million in debit transactions and credit.45 Insurance In insurance operations, we act in a consultative manner with members, from implementing the proposal to handling claims. End - branches 2021 generating peace of mind and security for several members in more than 44 thousand current policies. We provided more than R$2.9 million in accident compensation and R$371,000 were also paid to members drawn in one of the products that include this benefit. In this way, we offer protection and financial security to associates and their families. Associate awarded in São João da Urtiga. Associate awarded in Vacaria - Centro. Associate awarded in Santa Cecília do Sul. Associate awarded in Campos Novos.46 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC Savings Savings is our most well-known and traditional investment. It is a simple and low-risk investment, as well as being the most suitable for those just starting out. That's because you don't need a lot of money to start and You can redeem your resource at any time. It's great for building a reserve for unexpected expenses or achieving a goal. In 2021, we closed our portfolio with R$541 million raised. Investment funds We offer members the possibility of diversifying their investments through investment funds. To understand and recommend the solutions best suited to your objectives, needs and risk appetite, we analyze your investor profile. In 2021, despite the year being marked by high volatility in financial assets, many investors understood it as a moment of opportunity to enter into new investments.Agribusiness Letter of Credit (LCA) We reached more than R$153 million invested in LCA. The solution is ideal for members looking to diversify their assets with low-risk applications and competitive rates, in addition to being a source of financing for the cooperative's rural credit. During During the year, we increased the maximum remuneration rates for the product, with the aim of providing greater flexibility and autonomy for negotiations and adapting commercial conditions to market conditions. Term deposit Term deposit products are fundamental for our business, as they contribute to maintaining liquidity and guaranteeing the growth of credit operations. In 2021, we reached the mark of R$662 million in term deposits, with growth of 22.30% of the portfolio. 47 GREEN ECONOMY Aware of our ability to support sustainable development through our financial solutions, we seek to identify opportunities for creating and improving products with an eye on sustainability. We have several lines of credit aligned with the so-called green economy, which result in improving the well-being of humanity and social equality, while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. Pillars of the green economy Efficiency in the use of resources Social inclusion Low carbon emissions48 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC LINES CLASSIFIED AS LOW CARBON EMISSION AGRICULTURE Credit granted to small businesses Through the credit line of the National Support Program for Microenterprises and Small Businesses (Pronampe), it was possible to work for companies to acquire machinery and equipment, carry out renovations and payments of operational expenses, such as employee salaries, water, electricity and rent bills, purchase of raw materials and goods, among other purposes. The cooperative released R$41 million in 2021 in this line. Direct Planting Costing Lines Our main product with socio-environmental benefits. These lines finance direct planting systems in straw, which avoid plowing and harrowing operations, reducing soil disturbance and reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. Furthermore, the straw that remains on the soil promotes an increase in microbiological life, further reducing emissions. Our two funding lines had a concession volume of R$440 million in 2021. LINES CLASSIFIED AS GOOD AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES Pronaf Mais Alimentos Credit line with social benefit that makes financing possible for family farmers and rural producers. It must be used for investments directly related to implementation, expansion or modernization of the structure of production, storage, transport and agricultural or non-agricultural services activities, in the rural establishment or in nearby rural community areas. In 2021, there was a volume of grants of R$ 88.5 million .49 STRENGTHENING INNOVATION IN AGRICULTURE Credit for solar energy One of the highlights among our products aligned with the green economy is Financing for Solar Energy. With it, members can obtain credit to purchase equipment and technology to capture solar energy and generate clean electrical energy in their homes. In 2021, we granted R$11 million in credit in this product, which aims to bring more efficiency and sustainability to families and companies. In 2021, the cooperative also supported the implementation of a technology that allows the digital monitoring, tracking and control of rural properties for producers in the Altos da Serra region, currently covered by managing the municipalities of Vacaria, Curitibanos, São Joaquim, Lages, São José dos Ausentes, Bom Jesus and Monte Alegre dos Campos. The technology was developed by the startup Elysios, which participates in AgTech Garage, an innovation hub located in Piracicaba (SP) that connects startups, educational institutions, rural producers and other actors to accelerate the development of technological solutions for agribusiness. Through the initiative, farmers implemented the Field Notebook Digital, which allows the recording of rural activities on cell phones and computers, and they received training and technical advisory visits. As a result, it was possible to track production, bringing greater security to the farmer and consumer. Due to the positive results of the experience, the initiative will be expanded to other producers in our cooperative. Those interested in finding out more about this innovation can look for more information at your agency. 50 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC ECO-EFFICIENT OPERATION The search for an eco-efficient operation is an essential part of our sustainability strategy. We want to implement solutions in our cooperative that combine efficiency in the use of resources and social responsibility. There are several activities in our routine that generate GHG emissions into the atmosphere, both directly and indirectly. The Greenhouse Gas Emission Inventory is a method of accounting and report used by institutions that allows identifying, quantifying and managing GHGs from their processes and activities. At Sicredi, we calculate the Systemic Inventory annually, always considering the period from January 1st to December 31st. Carrying out the GHG Inventory is essential to understand our impacts and be able to act in the fight against climate change. The Sustainability Indicator System, also known as SIS, is an online system that facilitates the collection of GHG Emissions Inventory data. For this calculation, the following indicators are analyzed: air travel, use of air conditioning units and CO2 extinguishers, paper consumption, diesel oil consumption in generator, own vehicles, electricity consumption, kilometers reimbursed and transportation of cash and pouches. Emissions neutralization consists of reducing the impacts caused by GHG emissions throughout the year, through support for activities that avoid, reduce or capture greenhouse gas emissions. In 2020, Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC adhered to the SIS report and neutralized gas emissions.51 ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT Sicredi has a centralized integrated risk management structure that serves all institutions linked to the System. Based on the lines of defense model, risk teams act independently from the business areas and internal audit and are are dedicated to identifying, controlling and mitigating factors that could compromise the sustainability of the business in the short, medium and long term, contributing to the maintenance of our relationship of solidity and trust. Our risk management process considers: Financial SecurityFinancial risks • credit • market • variation in interest rates for banking portfolio instruments (IRRBB) • liquidity • capital management • socio-environmentalNon-financial risks • operational • business continuity • information security • compliance We work with the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop) with the aim of guaranteeing deposits and enabling financial assistance to cooperative financial institutions with possible liquidity difficulties. We rely on Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, funds made up of contributions from our cooperatives, reimbursements and recovery of assets, which have the function of guaranteeing compliance with financial obligations and support cooperative development actions. The security of members' investments is attested by the main credit risk rating agencies in the world, which guaranteed Banco Cooperativo Sicredi the following ratings on a national scale: Fitch Ratings; Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.52 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC PROMOTING FINANCIAL EDUCATION We consider financial education an essential tool to take sustainable development for associates, their businesses and the communities where we are present. Through it, we encourage conscious and prosperous attitudes in money management, encourage entrepreneurship and support small businesses in their process of establishing themselves in the market. 12 3Virtuous cycle of financial education Conscious members make planned and independent financial decisions. Members look for financial solutions to meet their needs needs Associates thrive in their personal and business goals. Related SDGs: 53 Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week) With the aim of strengthening the theme of Financial Education throughout the cooperative, we worked throughout 2021 on actions aimed at members and their communities. We also have initiatives to raise employee awareness. ENEF Week is an annual initiative organized by the Forum Brazilian Financial Education Board (FBEF). With the aim of promoting the National Financial Education Strategy in the cooperative, we carried out 70 actions during ENEF week, impacting more than 29 thousand people. Workshop held with teachers in Bom Jesus. Financial Education in Lages. Financial Education for women in Vila Lângaro. Workshop held with teachers in Jaquirana. By being present in cities of all sizes, from small to large, we act as a force driving force of local development, whether through our financial solutions, job creation or the programs developed. Find out how our close and responsible action positively impacts communities.Local development04Chapter Focus Themes: • Promote the local economy; • Promote human, social and intellectual capital in regional operations.56 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC FOSTER THE LOCAL ECONOMY Being a cooperative financial institution is the that differentiates us and brings us closer to our mission. By remaining aligned with our essence, the money raised in one location is reversed into credit granted to other members in the same location, creating a virtuous cycle that stimulates investment in the cooperative, the inclusion of a greater number of people in the financial system and the strengthening our associates' businesses. As a result, the presence of our cooperative supports local commerce, stimulates income generation and contributes to improving the quality of life of all inhabitants of the community. In the context of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, this strengthening of the local economy has become even more important. Related SDG: 57 Resources reinvested in the community Here at Sicredi Altos da Serra, all resources raised are reinvested in the community , just as part of the results generated is distributed among associates. This is the cooperative nature of business. When the Associates benefit from financial solutions, they strengthen the cooperative and enable the generation of positive results. In 2021, we reached a result of R$53.1 million, which supports the cooperative's business while remunerating members and returning to the local economy, generating even more development. R$ 15.5 million Reinvested in the community, returning to members according to their financial transactions. R$ 1.7 million was distributed in interest to the capital, sharing the financial results generated by the business with associates and expanding its assets. R$ 2.5 million Destined to FATES to encourage the development of employees and associates, through training courses, events and lectures. R$501 thousand Generated in 2021 for the Social Fund with the aim of supporting and enabling projects that originate from the community and seek to add income and improve people's quality of life. R$ 1.5 million Planned to expand the expansion and presence of Sicredi in new communities, allowing everyone to have access to a cooperative financial institution.58 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC Employee Development Our employees are part of the communities where we operate and, at the same time, They are responsible for the close and human relationship we establish with them. They are the ones who make an effort on a daily basis to learn about the lives of their members, the dynamics of the local economy and are capable of responding to your financial needs. We know that, by investing in education and training, we strengthen local development both by improving our ability to meet local demands and by strengthening the region's human capital. Throughout 2021, the dedicated work of employees allowed us to continue generating value for associates and their communities. FOSTER HUMAN, SOCIAL AND INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL IN REGIONAL OPERATIONS Related: 59 Guiding the development of our employees, we have a corporate education process that encourages the training of professionals integrated into the cooperative culture and offers a continuous, growing and cumulative learning process. The different levels of training take into account the experience and knowledge of the employee and the role they will perform. Education Basic training seeks to introduce and acculturate new employees through essential content about the our organization, structure and culture. In functional training, we support the development of skills related to the day-to-day activities of the business. Continuing training aims to expand knowledge regarding processes, methods and techniques used in the market, relating to the employee's current position or with a view to professional growth. It consists of internal and external courses and programs, seminars and congresses, as well as complementary courses. For managers, We offer leader training, which reinforces their managerial responsibilities and their role at Sicredi, enabling them to act strategically with a focus on people, processes and results. Corporate education actions take place through the distance learning platform Sicredi Aprendi, which provides content in an online format, available for free access to all employees. In 2021, we updated the platform with a more modern interface, new features - diversified design and content.60 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC We seek to continually develop our employees, always aligned with the principles of cooperativism. We encourage professional qualification and continue to seek to improve our performance in different ways every day. This effort is reflected in our results, such as the achievement of 82.6% in our NPS, a survey that measures associate satisfaction in relation to our business. In 2021, more than 30 thousand hours were invested in training. Offered by the Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities (ANBIMA), the certifications aim to prepare employees even more to provide financial consultancy to members. Today we have more than 90% of the business team with this knowledge. In 2021, in our climate survey, we reached a favorability index of 89%. This means that Sicredi is seen as an excellent place to work. This result demonstrates employee engagement and the strength of our cooperative essence. It is with this environment that we seek to deliver a business model that increasingly places the associate at the center of everything we do.Training Certifications Happiness at workTotal training hours 04207 CPA 10 CPA 20 CEA (new modality)4523.788 201919,336 202031,766 202161 R$1.5 million 2019R$1.3 million 2020R$2.5 million 2021Social Responsibility FATESDue to the cooperative nature of our business, we generate a direct positive impact on the communities where we operate. With the aim of further expanding our capacity to generate value for the local population, we have developed a series of private social investment actions, sponsorships and support, both of systemic and local origin. These initiatives take local needs into account and are aligned with the principles and values ​​of cooperativism. With the aim of investing resources in assistance to members and collaborators, the cooperative reserves 5% of its financial results in the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES). The Fund offers assistance on three fronts: • Technical assistance: supports technical training activities to develop the economic activity of members, improving the conditions of professional activity and supporting family subsistence; • Educational assistance: aims to improve the student’s knowledge membership and collaborators of the cooperative with the development of educational activities to disseminate and encourage cooperativism; • Social assistance: aims to improve the lives of associates, their families and employees through social support, with events, sporting and cultural activities, among other initiatives. Volume intended for FATES62 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC The Social Fund was created with the aim of supporting social projects, of our community, focused on associations, entrepreneurship, exercising the 7th principle of cooperativism, which is interest in the community. Year after year, the cooperative has been expanding the resources available and supporting various projects that originate from the community. In 2021, the initiative supported 64 projects in our region. Social Fund Amount allocated to the Social Fund R$ 260 thousand 2019 R$ 317 thousand 2020 R$ 501 thousand 2021 Association of Parents and Friends of Autistic People – AMA of Campos Novos. OSC Heirs of Future of Curitibanos.63 Every year, in the month of July, we celebrate C Day (Cooperate Day), a national initiative organized by the OCB System (Brazilian Cooperative Organization) that seeks to demonstrate the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations. . In 2021, we decided to expand the scope of our participation and began carrying out actions aligned with C-Day throughout the year, increasing our positive impact on communities, with the main objective of raising donations and mobilize volunteers to minimize the effects of the pandemic. The planning, conduction and mobilization of this work is carried out by the Sicredi Altos da Serra Employees Association (ASCOSI). That year, she carried out several volunteer actions at the cooperative, mainly helping with causes to combat the pandemic and other actions to support the needs of the regional community. In 2021, 286 basic food baskets were collected and donated and 47 donations were made - blood.Dia C Vacaria Campos NovosLages Curitibanos64 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC Strengthen our management modelPromote financial educationFoster the local economy and financial inclusionFoster human, social and intellectual capitalIntegrate opportunities and risk management and operate with eco-efficiencyDisseminate cooperativism and sustainability Promote diversity and inclusion SUSTAINABILITY DIRECTORS FOCAL THEMES (AND RELATED SDGs )EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS Relationships and Cooperativism Responsible Solutions Local DevelopmentAssociate Sicredi, you have reached the end of our 2021 retrospective, presented through this Annual Report. Throughout these pages, you were able to follow everything we built together with employees, associates and the community during the year. Thank you for your attention!EXPEDIENT Credit Cooperative with Free Admission for Members Altos da Serra Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC Coordination: Vanessa Soccol Layout: Tiaraju de Almeida - MTE/RS 16.669 Textual review: Bianca Damacena Photos: Sicredi Altos da Serra RS/SC files Printing: Tapejarense Indústria Gráfica - Circulation: 1000 Circulation: 44 municipalities Frequency: AnnualWe want to be close to you in all moments. Here you can find the Sicredi closest to you. https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/localizar-agencia Open your account:Service network