Digital assembly: access tutorialAssembly 2024SicrediParticipating in the digital assembly is very easy: just follow this tutorial.Before we start, some tips: if you have the Sicredi application, access to the assembly can be done through the Menu > Assemblies. If you do not have the Sicredi application, you will need to create a registration and password. The process is simpler if your registration is updated with Sicr edi. If you changed call or email recently, first update your registration using our service channels or contact your agency. So, are you ready to be a protagonist in your region? Let's start! For those of you who have the Sicredi or Sicredi X application, simply locate the Assemblies menu. When clicking on the menu, a screen will open, with text about the assemblies and the "Go to assemblies" button, which will direct you, the member, to the official page of the assemblies. Sicredi assemblies. There, you will be able to: 1. Consult the date, time and location of your meeting, if it is in person. Note: don't forget to confirm your presence with your manager at the agency. 2. Consult the date, time and materials of the meeting, if it is digital, and on the day of the meeting, access the event to participate. If you do not have a Sicredi or Sicredi X application and wish to register, type the address in your browser: fundacao.sicredi.com.br/assembleias/Click on the “Access assemblies” button, in the top right corner or on the links throughout the page. Now is the time to register. If this is your first time accessing the Assemblies platform, click on “I want to register”. I already have a registration Enter your CPF in the top field. Click on the “Register” button. And, just below, choose to identify yourself with SMS, email or notification via the Sicredi app.Click on the button “Confirm registration”. You will receive a token code in the application, email or on your registered cell phone; use this even number to validate your registration. Now that you have validated your token, it is time to choose a password. For more security, your password must be 8 characters long, containing letters (upper and lower case) and numbers. After typing the password in the top field, confirm it in the field below and click “Finish ” . If your phone or email does not are updated in the Sicredi registration, it will be necessary to conﬁrm some information before choosing a password. There are three simple questions. After conﬁrmation, register your password and click “Finish”. And ready! Now you are registered and can access your assembly. Log in to the platform using your CPF number and entering the password you created. If you have forgotten your password, click on “I forgot my password” and follow the process to register it again. Remembering that, in addition to the telephone and email, you can request the token via the Sicredi mobile application, if you have it. To do this, simply select the "Notification via the Sicredi app" option that will appear on your cell phone screen, the code number to enter on the platform. From there, just create the password. Now you see the assemblies of your cooperative. Check the date and time of the event and participate! It's up to you to decide and transform. Thanks for being part of the 2024 Assemblies.