1 / 9 SUMMARY MINUTES OF CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO – SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO CNPJ 35.571.249/0001 -31 – Av. Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca, nº 410 – Torre – João Pessoa - PB – NIRE 25400001072 SUMMARY MINUTES OF THE ASSE GENERAL MEMBERSHIPS EXTRAORDINARY AND ORDINARY I - On the eighth day of March 2022, at 5:00 pm, in third call, through digital modality for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform, through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, the General Extraordinary and Ordinary Digital Assemblies of the COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO - SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO were held, in accordance with IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43-A; - Clarified that on this date the number of members able to vote is 36,759. Call Notice published in the newspaper “A União” on 02/25/2022; - Also informed that in addition to the publication of the Notice of Notice in the press, it was posted in visible and appropriate places at the headquarters and other PAs of Sicredi Evolucion, communication to members, electronic SMS messages to members via cell phone, as well as published on the Cooperative's website, www.sicredi.com. br/coop/evoluca o, as well as on the Assembly access platform at www.sicredi.com.br/assembleiadigital, featuring the triple form of convocation; - It was also announced that the meeting was being recorded and that was held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform, in view of the current global pandemic scenario, with all the instructions for member registration, form of access, manifestation, participation and voting in the assembly included in the Notice. II - ATTENDANCE: - In total, 570 (five hundred and seventy) members registered to participate in the assembly. They were present, according to the electronic record of the platform used at the 3:00 pm (fifteen hours), on first call, only 118 (one hundred and eighteen) members; at 4:00 pm (sixteen hours), in the second call, only 317 (three hundred and seventeen) members, and, at 5:00 pm (seventeen hours), in the third and final call, 570 (five hundred and seventy) members, 2 / 9 after quorum verification legal installation and deliberation, the AGE and the AGO were held, under the presidency of Dr. João Bezerra Júnior, President of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Evolution. III - COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD: Dr. João Bezerra Júnior – Chairman of the Board of Directors Dr. Paulo Valério Nóbrega Ferreira de Melo – Executive Director Mr. Lourival Lopes - Operations Director Dr. Felipe Gurgel de Araújo – Business Director Dr. Ana Karla Almeida de Medeiros Delgado - Coordinator of the Fiscal Council Mr. Thales de Sousa Cavalcanti – Superintendent Dr. Caius Marcellus Lacerda – Legal Advisor and “ad hoc” Secretary of the work IV - DELIBERATIONS: The following deliberations were taken and approved by vote of those present, with those legally prevented from voting abstaining from voting: IN EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY: 1 - Broad reform of the Cooperative's Social Statute and its consolidation, adapting it to the Systemic model. Proposals for statutory changes were presented, for the purposes of adherence to the Systemic Social Statute, also emphasizing the main changes peculiar to Sicredi Evolucion: - Art. 1, item II - include 6 (six) small municipalities in Paraíba that surround the current municipalities in our area of ​​action and that were not included in the last statutory change: Baraúna; Borborema; Damian; Matinha; Riachão do Bacamarte and Sossêgo. Subsequently, the following municipalities in the State of Piauí were included in the Sicredi Evolucion area of ​​action: Alvorada do Gurguéia, Antônio Almeida, Avelino Lopes, Baixa Grand e do Ribeiro, 3 / 9 Barreiras do Piauí, Bertolínia, Bom Jesus, Canavieira, Canto do Buriti, Colônia do Gurguéia, Corrente, Cristalândia do Piauí, Cristino Castro, Curimatá, Currais, Eliseu Martins, Gilbués, Guaribas, Júlio Borges, Landri Sales, Manoel Emídio, Marcos Parente, Monte Alegre do Piauí, Palmeira do Piauí, Parnaguá, Pavussu, Porto Alegre do Piauí, Redenção do Gurguéia, Riacho Frio, Ribeiro Gonçalves, Santa Filomena, Santa Luz, São Gonçalo do Gurguéia, Sebastião Barros, Sebastião Leal and Uruçuí, as per deliberate approval in item 09 of agenda of the 194th meeting of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste, on 13 and 14/09/2018, aiming to operate in the South of the State of Piauí, mainly to leverage operations in rural credit, - Insert item II, in § 3 , of Art. 12, with the following wording: “II – For individual members who fall into one of the categories described below, continuous payment will not be mandatory, and may be a single payment, in the amount of R$ 20.00: member those opting for Digital platform; associates from payroll agreements linked to associated companies; associated civil servants from Municipal Governments with up to 150,000 inhabitants; INSS retirees and pensioners - general regime”. The changes aim to facilitate the entry of new members with lower incomes; - Change item I, of Article 42, to the following wording: “I - 35% (thirty-five percent), at least, to the Reserve Fund, intended to repair losses and attend to the development of the Cooperative”; - Insert § 1, in item III, of Article 42, with the following wording: “ § 1 The percentage of allocation to the Reserve Fund provided for in item I of this article will occur in a staggered manner, being: 30% (thirty percent ) in the years 2022 and 2023 and 35% (thirty-five percent) from the year 2024.” 2 – Approve the Cooperative’s Internal Regulations, according to the systemic model. The Internal Regulations (IR) of the Cooperative, adhering to the systemic model, which has already been approved by the Board of Directors. 3 – Approve the Cooperative’s Electoral Code, adapting it to the systemic model. The Cooperative Electoral Code model was presented, fitting the Systemic model, maintaining some peculiarities of Sicredi Evolucion, as already approved by the Board of Directors. 4 – Approve the beginning of the relationship with the municipalities located in the cooperative’s area of ​​action, its bodies, entities and companies, in accordance with CMN Resolution 4,659/18, with the reasons being presented, namely: Solânea; Alagoa Grand e, Alagoa Nova, Alhandra, Arara, Araruna, Areia, Bananeiras, Bayeux, Borborema, Cabedelo, Cacimba de Dentro, Campina Grande, Conceição, Conde, Cuité, Esperança, Guarabira, Itabaiana, João Pessoa, 4 / 9 Lagoa Seca , Mamanguape, Mari, Monteiro, Pedras de Fogo, Queimadas, Patos, Piancó, Princesa Isabel, Picuí, Rio Tinto, Santa Luzia, Santa Rita, Sapé, Serra Branca, Serraria, Sumé, Taperoá and Teixeira. 5 – Approve the Corporate Governance Policy, in accordance with CMN Resolution 4,434/15. Presented the Systemic Corporate Governance Policy, already approved by the Board of Directors. 6 – Approve the Internal Audit Standard, in Sicredi’s systemic model, in accordance with Resolution 4,879/20. Presented the Systemic Internal Audit Standard, already approved by the Board of Directors. 7 – Approve the Compliance Policy, in Sicredi's systemic model, in accordance with CMN Resolution 4,595/17: Presented the Systemic Policy and Compliance, already approved by the Board of Directors. 8 – Approve the Compliance Risk Management Standard. Presented the Systemic Compliance Risk Management Standard, already approved by the Board of Directors. After due explanations and interactions via chat with associates, the statutory changes and regulations were approved by a broad majority of members, with 174 approvals, 1 abstention and no disapproval. AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING: 1 – Presentation of accounts of the management bodies, relating to the year ended December 31, 2021, comprising a management report, balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding year, statement of surpluses, audit opinion and opinion of the Fiscal Council . The President made a broad display of the main actions and results achieved in 2021. Afterwards, the Administrative Operations Manager, Thales Cavalcanti presented the financial statements and then Dr. Ana Karla Almeida de Medeiros Delgado, Coordinator of the Fiscal Council, read the opinions of the Fiscal Council and the independent audit. It was also emphasized that the Report, accounting statements and opinions were available on the Sicredi Evolucion home page since February 25th of this year. 5 / 9 The matter was put up for discussion and approved unanimously, with 179 approvals, no disapprovals and no abstentions. Then, the President invited Mr. Lourival Lopes to present the following item. 2 – Allocation of Leftovers from the 2021 financial year - The matter was put up for discussion and voting, being approved by the majority of those present, with 199 approvals, 01 disapproval and no abstentions. a) Interest on Capital Remuneration on capital totaling R$ 14,702. 652.48 (fourteen million, seven hundred and two thousand, six hundred and fifty-two reais and forty-eight cents), corresponding to 100% of the Selic for public bonds, according to LC 130, calculated at the percentage of 4.231549% simple interest ( not capitalized) and paid in proportion to the average balance of each member's shares, calculated in the year ended and allocated 100% to the Current Account, paid on 12/30/2021, as authorized by the Board of Directors, through a meeting of December 22, 2021 and ratified by the assembly. b) Surplus - gross surplus of R$51,165,802.74 (fifty-one million, one hundred and sixty-five thousand, eight hundred and two reais and seventy-four cents); c) Allocation of 25% to the Reserve Fund, amounting to R$ 12,791,450.69 (twelve million, seven hundred and ninety-one thousand, four hundred and fifty reais and sixty-nine cents) and 5% to the Assistance Fund Technical, Educational and Social (FATES), value of R$ 2,558,290.14 (two million, five hundred and fifty-eight thousand, two hundred and ninety reais and fourteen cents); leaving the amount of R$ 35,816,061.91 (thirty-five million, eight hundred and sixteen thousand, sixty-one reais and ninety-one cents), as net surplus to be distributed. d) Allocation of the amount of R$ 1,074,481.88 (one million, seventy-four thousand, four hundred and eighty-one reais and eighty-eight cents) to Social Responsibility - Voluntary Fund. e) Value of R$ 34,741,580.03 (Thirty-four million, seven hundred and forty-one thousand, five hundred and eighty reais and three cents) to be distributed to members, in direct proportion to the operations carried out by each one in the year just ended, allocated 100% to the current account, to be paid in March of the current year, according to the following method: 6 / 9 - R$3,581. 856.90 (three million, five hundred and eighty-one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six reais and ninety cents) proportionally the average cash current account balance realized during the year; - R$ 28,112. 886.56 (twenty-eight million, one hundred and twelve thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six reais and fifty-six cents) in proportion to the average balance of time deposits made in the year, with R$6,805 allocated. 875.53 (six million, eight hundred and five thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five reais and fifty-three cents) for DP modality - EXCLUSIVE LP; R$ 493,330.44 (four hundred and ninety-eight three thousand, three hundred and thirty reais and forty-four cents) for the DP modality - Automatic Applications and R$ 20.81 3,680.59 (twenty million, eight hundred and thirteen thousand, six hundred and eighty reais and fifty-nine cents) for the DP modality – Sicredinvest /RDC Reserva; - R$ 1,737,079.00 (one million, seven hundred and thirty-seven thousand and seventy-nine reais) in proportion to the value of commercial/rural credit – appropriate income; - R$ 52,112.37 (fifty-two thousand, one hundred and twelve reais and thirty-seven cents) in proportion to the overdraft amount; - R$ 538,494.49 (five hundred and thirty-eight thousand, four hundred and ninety-four reais and forty-nine cents) proportionally to Social Security, being R$ 462,063.01 (four hundred and sixty-two thousand, sixty-three reais and one cent) for social security -NNe and R$ 76,431.48 (seventy-six thousand, four hundred and thirty-one reais and forty-eight cents) Sicredi pension; - R$ 34,741.58 (thirty-four thousand, seven hundred and forty-one reais and fifty-eight cents) proportionally to consortiums; - R$ 34,741.58 (thirty-four thousand, seven hundred and forty-one reais and fifty-eight cents) in proportion to insurance results; - R$ 180,656.22 (one hundred and eighty thousand, six hundred and fifty-six reais and twenty-two cents) proportionally to credit card; - R$ 17,370.79 (seventeen thousand, three hundred and seventy reais and seventy-nine cents) proportionally to the MDR on card acquiring services; - R$ 34,741.58 (thirty-four thousand, seven hundred and forty-one reais and fifty-eight cents) proportionally to the advance fee on card acquiring services; 7 / 9 - R$ 309,200.06 (three hundred and nine thousand, two hundred reais and six cents) in proportion to savings; - R$ 72,957.32 (seventy-two thousand, nine hundred and fifty-seven reais and thirty-two cents) provides especially for LCA applications; - R$ 34,741.58 (thirty-four thousand, seven hundred and forty-one reais and fifty-eight cents) proportionally to investments in distributed funds; Of the amount distributed, except for the amount allocated to the accounting item Social Responsibility – Voluntary Fund, surpluses will be retained in the amount of 15% (fifteen percent), in the amount of R$ 5,211,237.00 (five million, two hundred and eleven thousand , two hundred and thirty-seven reais), proportional to the values distributed to each member, as a prudential means to protect against possible incidence of income tax on the distribution of surpluses, as per the Federal Revenue Service against the Cooperative regarding distributions of previous surpluses, subject to judicialization of competent action, which may, as per subsequent guidance from Sicredi Central N/NE or success in the action, be credited to the members, and must remain in the accounting caption “Surplus to Distribute” until collection to be made in judicial account linked to the action itself. 3 – Presented by the President the third item on the Agenda of the Ordinary General Meeting on the establishment of the fees and benefits of the President and Vice-President of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board, as well as the attendance records of the members of the Board of Directors, Fiscal Council and the Credit Recovery Commission, indicating the current values ​​and proposed values. They were approved by the broad majority of 145 approvals, 3 disapprovals and 8 abstentions, the following values: - President of the Board of Directors - R$ 46,457.82 (forty-six thousand, four hundred and fifty-seven reais and eighty-two cents) monthly; - Executive Director - R$ 46,457.82 (forty-six thousand, four hundred and fifty-seven reais and eighty-two cents) monthly; - Operations Directors - 46,457.82 (forty-six thousand, four hundred and fifty-seven reais and eighty-two cents) monthly; - Business Director - R$ 37,166.26 (thirty-seven thousand, one hundred and sixty-six reais and twenty-six cents), monthly; - Regional Director – R$ 23,228.91 (twenty-three thousand, two hundred and twenty-eight reais and ninety-one cents) monthly; 8 / 9 - Vice-President of the Board of Directors – R$ 23,228.91 (twenty-three thousand, two hundred and twenty-eight reais and ninety-one cents) monthly. - Attendance records of members of the Board of Directors, Fiscal and Credit Recovery Commission – R$ 4,645.78 (four thousand, six hundred and forty-five reais and seventy-eight cents); - Maintenance of current benefits already approved in previous AGMs, and inclusion of the following benefits: Sicredi Systemic Variable Remuneration Model – Right to variable remuneration with up to five multiples for President, Vice-President and Directors, in accordance with the Statutory Remuneration Standard – from 2023. Life Insurance – Sicredi Standard National As there was no further business to be discussed, the meeting was closed, the minutes of which, read and found to be in compliance, were signed by the president, the directors, the secretary and the associates designated by the Assembly who wish to do so. Finally, we assume full responsibility for the fidelity of the statements made herein, with the Central Bank of Brazil now being authorized to use them, within legal limits and, in court or out of court, as it sees fit. We declare, to the appropriate purposes, that these minutes are a faithful and complete copy of those recorded in the proper book. João Pessoa/PB, March 8, 2022 . João Bezerra Júnior Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Evolucion Paulo Valério Nóbrega Ferreira de Melo Executive Director of Sicredi Evol ução Lourival Lopes Operations Director of Sicredi Evolucion 9 / 9 Felipe Gurgel de Araújo Business Director of Sicredi Evolucion Caius Marcellus Lacerda Secretary "to this"