1 / 7 Classification of information: Internal Use SUMMARY MINUTES OF CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO – SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO CNPJ 35.571.249/0001 -31 – Av. Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca, nº 410 – Torre – João Pessoa - PB – NIRE 25400001072 SUMMARY MINUTES OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING I - On the eleventh day of March 2020, at 7:00 pm, in the auditorium of the Court of Auditors of the State of Paraíba, Centro Cultural Ariano Suassuna, located on Rua Professor Geraldo Von Sohsten, nº 147 – Jaguaribe, the Ordinary General Assembly of the COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO - SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO was held; - Clarified that on this date the number of members able to vote is 26,989. Call Notice published in the newspaper “Correio da Paraíba” on 02/21/20 20 and 02/28/2020 of this year; - Also informed that in addition to the publication of the Notice in the press, several Notices were posted in visible and appropriate locations at the headquarters and other PAs of Sicredi Evolucion, communication to members, electronic sms-messages to members via cell phone, as also published on the Cooperative website, address www.sicredi.com.br/evolucao, characterizing the triple form of summons. - It was also announced that the meeting was being recorded and that it was taking place in the auditorium of the Court of Auditors of the State of Paraíba, due to lack of accommodation at the headquarters of the Cooperative, as per justification already mentioned in the notice. II - ATTENDANCE: - According to the signatures in the attendance lists at 5:00 pm (seventeen hours) on first call, only 05 (five) members were present; at 18:00h (eighteen hours), in the second call, only 11 (eleven) members, and, at 19:00h (nineteen hours), in the third and final call, with 270 (two hundred and seventy) members, after verification of the legal quorum for installation and deliberation, the AGM, under the presidency of Dr. João Bezerra Júnior, President of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Evolucion. 2 / 7 Classification of information: Internal Use III - COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD: Dr. João Bezerra Júnior – Chairman of the Board of Directors Dr. Paulo Valério Nóbrega Ferreira de Melo – Executive Director Dr. João Alfredo Falcão da Cunha Lima – Operations Director Dr. Felipe Gurgel de Araújo – Business Director Dr. Ademir Costa Wanderley – Regional Director Dr. Wilson Ribeiro de Moraes Filho – Director - President of Central Sicredi North/Northeast Mr. Lourival Lopes – Superintendent Dr. Camilla Lacerda Alves – Legal Advisor and “ad hoc” Secretary of the work IV - DELIBERATIONS: They were taken and approved by vote of the present, those legally prevented from voting, the following deliberations: 1 - The President of the Sicredi Board of Directors presented his greetings and considerations to those present, inviting the Vice-President of the Board of Directors, Dr. João Gonçalves de Medeiros Filho to read the President's message. He then thanked the Vice-President and began the presentation of the 2019 Annual Report with screens about the Sicredi System, its area of ​​activity and continued showing Sicredi's numbers, highlighting that they are quite significant. Mr. President explained the line of historical evolution of the Cooperative, highlighting the union movement that occurred with the incorporation of the former Sicredi Centro Paraibana. He explained about the expansion of the headquarters, the opening of smaller agencies in 2019, such as Catolé -CG and Intermares -Cabedel o, about the sustainability model agency and the inaugurations of the Solânea agency that took place in February this year; Mamanguape branch, which is scheduled for the end of May and, later, the branch in Santa Rita. The President highlighted that before defining the implementation of an agency, a study is carried out of economic and financial viability. Dr. João Bezerra continued the presentation discussing the 3 / 7 Classification of information: Internal Use Cooperative numbers, emphasizing the growth percentages in the last year, such as total assets, which grew 37%; associates, with growth of 65%; credit with growth of 40%; applications, with 44% growth; demand deposits, with a 32% increase; Capital with 25%; net result with 15%; cards with 84% evolution; hold them with 27%; pension with 9%; consortia with 75%; acquisition with 35%. Continuing, the President invited the Executive Director to present the highlights of the main actions carried out in 2019. Dr. Paulo Valério thanked the Cooperative's employees for their presence, highlighting the importance of everyone's work and also the President of the Board of Directors , to the counselors and their peers on the Board of Directors, to the Central NNE, in the person of Dr. Wilson, Dr. Ademir and the Dr. Fábio Piquet and the Cooperative's internal and external legal advisors. The Executive Director highlighted the importance of the Cooperative's work with the community, informing about Social Responsibility, in which the Cooperative assisted more than 18 institutions, offered more than 15 professional courses, donated, in the year, more than 50 wheelchairs , more than two thousand disposable diapers, more than 1 thousand personal hygiene kits and more than 10 tons of food. He also spoke about the achievements of SIMc redito, the 5th Musicredi, the 2nd Cultural Sarau, the 6th MBA, member meeting, investor meeting, financial education, as well as the implementation of electronic terminals in the city's main shopping malls, the implementation of the application among other advances. Then, the floor was given to Mr. Thales Cavalcanti, Administrative Operations Manager, to present the 2019 financial statements, paying attention to the information that since February 28, 2020, the Balance Sheet, accounting statements, explanatory notes and opinions of the Fiscal Council and Independent Audit have been published on the Cooperative's website. On the occasion of the discussion and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year just ended, upon recommendation of the Assembly, Dr. André Pacelli Bezerra Viana presided over the work, and Dr. Marcel Martins Marques, Coordinator of the Fiscal Council, read the opinion of the Fiscal Council and Audit Independent ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S., relating to the financial year 201 9. The matter was put up for discussion and approved unanimously, with those legally prevented from voting abstaining from voting. 2 - Allocation of Leftovers from the 201 year 4 / 7 Information classification: Internal Use seven hundred and thirteen reais and seventy-nine cents), being put under discussion and unanimously approved by those present, in the following form: a) Interest on Capital Remuneration on capital totaling R$ 16,002,032.12 (sixteen million, two thousand , thirty-two reais and twelve centavos), corresponding to 100% of the Selic for public bonds, according to LC 130, calculated at the percentage of 5.79% simple interest (not capitalized) and paid proportionally to the average balance of the shares part of each member, calculated in the year ended and allocated 100% to the Current Account, paid on 2 9/11/2019 and on 30/12/2019, as authorized by the Board of Directors, through the meetings of 27 November and 13 December 2019 and ratified by the assembly. b) Surplus - allocation of surpluses determined in the year, on a gross basis of R$52,450,681.67 (fifty-two million, four hundred and fifty thousand, six hundred and eighty-one reais and sixty-seven centavos); w) 25% to the Reserve Fund, amounting to R$ 13,112,670.42 (thirteen million, one hundred and twelve thousand, six hundred and seventy reais and forty-two cents), 5% to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), value of R$ 2,622,534.08 (two million, six hundred and twenty-two thousand, five hundred and thirty-four reais and eight cents); remaining the amount of R$ 36,715,477.17 (thirty-six million, seven hundred and fifteen thousand, four hundred and seventy-seven reais and seventeen cents) as liquid leftovers to be distributed. d) Allocation of the amount of R$ 4,031,359.39 (four million, thirty-one thousand, three hundred and fifty-nine reais and thirty-nine cents) to the Legal Reserve, as a replacement for the use of the Legal Reserve in the incorporation process of the Sicredi Centro Paraibana; e) Allocation of the amount of R$550,732.17 (five hundred and fifty thousand, seven hundred and thirty-two reais and seventeen cents) to the Social Responsibility accounting heading. f) Value of R$ 32, 133,385.61 (thirty-two million, one hundred and thirty-three thousand, three hundred and eighty-five reais and sixty-one cents) to be distributed to members, in direct proportion to the operations carried out by each one in the year just ended, allocated 100% to the current account, to be paid in March of the current year, according to the following method: 5 / 7 Information classification: Internal Use • R$ 3,599,164.27 (three million, five hundred and ninety-nine thousand, one hundred and sixty-four reais and twenty-seven centavos) in proportion to the average balance of demand deposits made in the year; • R$ 25,520,297.37 (twenty-five million, five hundred and twenty thousand, two hundred and ninety-seven reais and thirty-seven cents), proportional to the average balance of time deposits made in the year, with R$ 9,450 allocated. 422.42 (nine million, four hundred and fifty thousand, four hundred and twenty-two reais and forty-two centavos), for modality of SICREDINVEST EXCLU SIVO LP, and R$ 16,069,874.95 (sixteen million, sixty-nine thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four reais and ninety-five cents), for the other types of applications of Cooperativa Sicredinvest/Evolutivo / Automatics; • R$ 1,837,948.84 (one million, eight hundred and thirty-seven thousand, nine hundred and forty-eight reais and eighty-four centavos) in proportion to the value of interest paid on credit operations; • R$ 549,424.95 (five hundred and forty-nine thousand, four hundred and twenty-four reais and ninety-five cents) in proportion to the results of the cards (credit and debit); • R$ 366,307.22 (three hundred and sixty if is one thousand, three hundred and seven reais and twenty-two cents) in proportion to the average balance of private pension reserves with Icatu Seguradora; • R$ 73,903.02 (seventy-three thousand, nine hundred and three reais and two cents) proportionally to the results of consortiums; • R$73,887.02 (seventy-three thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven reais and two cents) in proportion to insurance results; • R$35,339.97 (thirty-five thousand, three hundred and thirty-nine reais and ninety-seven cents) in proportion to savings; • R$77,112.95 (seventy-seven thousand, one hundred and twelve reais and ninety-five cents) in proportion to the acquisition result; Of the amount distributed, except on the amount allocated to the Legal Reserve and the Social Responsibility accounting item, surpluses will be retained in the amount of 15% (fifteen percent), in the amount of R$ 4,820,007.84 (four million, eight hundred and twenty thousand, seven reais and eighty-eight four cents) proportional to each product, and for each member, as a prudential way to protect against possible incidence of income tax on the distribution of leftovers, as per the Federal Revenue Service's assessment against the Cooperative on distributions of leftovers previous es, object of appeal 6 / 7 Classification of information: Internal administrative use and judicialization of competent action, which may, according to subsequent guidance from Sicredi Central N/NE or success in the administrative or judicial scope, be credited to the members, and must remain under the heading accounting “Remains to Distribute” until payment to be made in a judicial account linked to the action itself. 3 - Presentation and assessment of the Action Plan for 20 20: Mr. President He then moved on to the third item on the Agenda, presenting the Action Plan for 2020, which was done using several screens containing a summary of the main actions and goals to be implemented during the current year. Once the presentation was concluded, the matter was put up for discussion and voting, and was finally approved unanimously. 4 – The President presented the fourth item on the Agenda on the fixing of fees and benefits for members of the Board of Directors Executive Board, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the attendance records of the members of the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board and the Credit Recovery Committee, indicating the current values ​​and proposed values. Abstaining from voting those legally prohibited, the following amounts were approved by the majority, with one abstention: - President of the Board of Directors - R$ 40,000.00 (forty thousand reais per month); - Executive Director - R$40,000.00 (forty thousand reais) monthly; - Operations and Business Directors - R$ 32,000.00 (thirty-two thousand reais) monthly, each; Regional Director – R$ 20,000.00 (twenty thousand reais) monthly; - Attendance certificates for members of the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board and Credit Recovery Committee – R$ 4,000.00 (four thousand reais); - New benefits for the President of the Board of Directors and Executive Board: Food voucher of R$ 1,143.00 (one thousand, one hundred and forty-three reais) with a 1% discount and annual funding of R$878.63 (eight hundred and seventy-eight reais and sixty-three cents). - Option to pay 8% on salaries, in a Pension Plan or collect FGTS for the President of the Board of Directors and Executive Board. 7 / 7 Classification of information: Internal Use As there was no further business to discuss, the meeting was closed, the minutes of which, read and found to be in agreement, were signed by the president, the directors, the secretary and by the members designated by the Assembly, who wish to do so. Finally, we assume full responsibility for the fidelity of the statements made herein, with the Central Bank of Brazil now being authorized to use them, within legal limits and, in court or out of court, as it sees fit. We declare, for all due purposes, that these minutes are a faithful and complete copy of those recorded in the proper book. João Pessoa/ PB, March 11, 20 20. João Bezerra Júnior Chairman of the Board of Directors Paulo Valério Nóbrega Ferreira de Melo Executive Director João Alfredo Falcão da Cunha Lima Operations Director Felipe Gurgel de Araújo Business Director Camilla Lacerda Alves “ad hoc” Secretary