s\ 5) C433.» //0 "-17 §Co«€tf>.r\,»o.~lr -11>'/A60 Q, A66 90'? ATAsumamA COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO SICREDI JOA0 PESSOA CNPJ 35.571.249l0001-31 — Av. Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca, n° 410 — Torre — Joéo Pessoa - PB — NIRE 25400001072 SUMMARY MINUTES OF THE EXTRAORDINARY AND ORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS I - On the twenty-eighth day of February 2018, at 6:45 pm, in the auditorium of the Court of Auditors of the State of Paraiba, Ariano Suassuna Cultural Center, located on Rua Professor Geraldo Von Sohsten, n° 147 — Jaguaribe, the Extraordinary and Ordinary General Assemblies of the COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO SICREDI JOA0 PESSOA were held; - Clarified that on this date the number of members eligible to vote is 131570. Call notice published in the newspaper “Correio da Paralba” on February 8th and 11th of this year; - Please also inform that in addition to publishing the Notice in the press, several Notices were posted in visible and appropriate locations at the headquarters and other PAs of Sicredi João Pessoa, communication to members by means of a letter, as also published on the Cooperative's website, address httgz//www.sicredinne.com.br/'oaogessoa, featuring the triple form of convocation. We also emphasize the widespread sending of electronic messages to members via cell phone. ' - It was also announced that the meeting took place in the auditorium of the Court of Auditors of the State of Paralba, as the headquarters of Sicredi Joao Pessoa did not have an auditorium, nor sufficient space to house the large number of members, as per the justification already mentioned in the notice. n-references: - According to the signatures contained in the attendance registers at 4:45 pm (sixteen hours and forty-five minutes), only 20 (twenty) members were present on first call; at 5:45 pm (seventeen hours and forty-five minutes), in the second call, only 45 (forty-five) members and, at 6:45 pm (eighteen hours and forty-five minutes), in the third and final call, with 94 (novel and four) associates, after verifying the legal quorum for installation and deliberation, the '. and ,~GO, under the presidency of Dr. Joao Bezerra Junior, President of the Council _3 of * administration of Sicredi Joao Pessoa; r ||| - COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD: Dr. doéo Bezerra Junior — President of the Board of Directors Dr. Joao Gongalves de Medeiros Filho - Vice-President of the Board of Directors Dr. Paulo Valério Nébrega Ferreira de Melo — Executive Director Dr. Joéo Alfredo Falcéo da Cunha Lima — Operations Director Dr. Felipe Gurgel de Araujo — Business Director Mr. Lourival Lopes — Superintendent Dr. Caius Marcellus Lacerda — Legal Advisor and work secretary IV - DELIBERACDES: They were taken and approved unanimously by those present , those legally prevented from voting, abstaining from voting on the following deliberations. 1 - Amendments - Statutes: The President presented the proposals for statutory amendments, for the purposes of: - Inserting the item XXVII to Article 36, with the following wording: "XXVII - approve, supervise and control the processes related to planning, operationalization, maintenance and review of the administrator succession policy”, - insert §4° to Article 45 , with the following wording "§ 4°- The members of the Fiscal Council, after their election has been approved by the Central Bank of Brazil, will be invested in their positions according to terms of investiture drawn up in the Book of Minutes of the Board of Directors and will remain in office until their replacements take office." 2 - Approve the Compliance Policy, in accordance with Resolution 4,595/17 and the Norm — Internal Audit for Individual Cpoperativas, in accordance with Res'o|u(;éo 4588 /2017. ' Afterwards, the President published the statutes presented, with discussion and voting on the amendments and consolidation of ' ' Marci L“'“I“' (I5 Cams QAB[P 520' 2 /6 .1 Bylaws, being for all legal purposes, the attached statute is an integral part of these minutes, with the changes promoted in the Assembly. The Compliance Policy was also approved, under the terms of - Resolution 4,595/17 and the Standard — Internal Audit for Individual Cooperatives, under the terms of Resolution 4,588/2017, unanimously by those present. Having exhausted the matters on the agenda of the Extraordinary General Assembly, the matters on the agenda of the Ordinary General Assembly were considered: 3 - Assessment of the Annual Report, General Balance Sheet and Accounting Statements, accompanied by the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the opinion of the Independent Auditor ERNST & YOUNG Auditores lndependentes S.S., relating to the 2017 financial year. The matter was put up for discussion and approved unanimously, abstaining. those legally prevented from voting. - Balance sheet from the 2017 exercise, accounting statements, notes. explanatory reports and opinions from the Fiscal Council and Independent Audit were available on the Sicredi Joao Pessoa’s “home-page” since February 16th of this year. - On the occasion of the Accounting for the ﬁnal year, the Assembly was presided over by Dr. André Pacelli Bezerra Viana, who invited Mr. Lourival Lopes, to act as secretary and Dr. Marcel Martins Marques, Coordinator of the Fiscal Council, read the opinion of the Fiscal and Independent Audit Council. 4 - Allocation of Leftovers from the 2017 financial year - The matter was put up for discussion and approved unanimously by the present: a) Interest on Capital Provisioned and recorded in the balance sheet for the 2017 financial year as remuneration on capital at a rate of 100% of the Selic, a percentage of 9.53% simple interest (not capitalized), totaling R$ 23,287,076.87 (twenty-three million, two hundred and eighty-seven thousand, seventy-six reais and eighty-seven cents) and will be paid in proportion to the average balance of each member's shares, calculated in the ﬁnding year, allocated 100% to the current account, to be a page on next March 1st. 28.419.455.12 (Twenty-eight million; four hundred and twelve thousand, % b) Leftovers - allocation of leftovers determined in the year, gross leftovers of R$ J four hundred and fifty-five reais and twelve cents); urcelius Law 41' Cwlxdva oAB/PB 5207 c) 20% to the Reserve Fund, amounting to R$5,683,891.02 (five million, six hundred and eighty-three thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one reais and two centavos), 5% to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), value of R$ 1,420,972.76 (one million, four hundred and twenty thousand, nine hundred and seventy-two reais and seventy-six cents); and the remaining 75%, in the amount of R$ 21,314,591.34 (twenty-one million, three hundred and fourteen thousand, five hundred and ninety-one reais and thirty-four cents), which will be distributed to members, in direct proportion of the operations carried out by each person in the year just ended, allocated 100% to the current account, to be paid on the 1st of March, in accordance with the following method: 29% in proportion to the average balance of demand deposits made during the year, equivalent to R$63,181,231.49 (six million, one hundred and eighty-one thousand, two hundred and thirty-one reais and forty-nine cents); 63% in proportion to the average balance of term deposits made during the year, equivalent to R$ 13,428,192.54 (thirteen million, four hundred and twenty-eight thousand, one hundred and ninety-two reais and fifty-four cents), being allocated 26 % or R$ 5,541,793.74 (five million, five hundred and forty-one thousand, seven hundred and ninety is three reais and seventy-four centavos) for the UNIRDC PLUS LP modality and 37% or R$ 7,886,398.80 (seven million, eight hundred and eighty-six thousand, three hundred and ninety and eight reais and eighty cents), for the other modalities of UNlRDCInvest and UNIRDC Premium. 5% in proportion to the value of interest paid on credit operations and interest paid on special checks and guaranteed accounts, equivalent to RS 1,065,729.57 (one million, sixty-eight five thousand, seven hundred, twenty-nine reais and fifty-seven cents), being 4.18% or R$ 890,949.92 (eight hundred and ninety thousand, nine hundred and forty-nine reais and ninety-two cents) on income to appropriate credit and 0.82 or R$ 174,779.65 (one hundred and seventy-four thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine reais and sixty-five cents) on interest paid on special check and guaranteed account, 1.0% proportionally is use of the credit card, equivalent to RS 213,145.91 (two hundred and thirteen thousand, one hundred and forty-five reais and ninety-one centavos); ~ 1% in proportion to the average balance of private pension reserves with Icatﬂ Seguradora, equivalent to R$ 213,145.91 (two hundred and thirteen thousand, one hundred and forty-five reais and ninety-one cents); 0.5% proportional to the use of the debit card, equivalent to R$ 106,572.96 (one hundred and seventy reais and ninety-six cents) or 05% for the accounting item Responsibility Social, equivalent to R$ 106,572.96 (one hundred and six thousand, five hundred and seventy-two reais and ninety-six cents); It was also approved that the value retained from the liquid surpluses from 2016, in the amount of R$ 3,506,011.26 (three million, five hundred and six thousand, eleven reais and twenty-six cents), would remain in “Liquid surpluses to be distributed”, as a prudential measure, until the final adjustment of the policy and risk modeling of the Central Sicredi NNe systems and the Sicredi System. Of the amount distributed, leftovers will be retained in the amount of 15% (fifteen percent), proportional to each product, and from each member, as a prudential means to protect against possible incidence of income tax on the distribution of leftovers, in accordance with the assessment of the Federal Revenue against the Cooperative on distributions of previous surpluses, object of administrative appeal, and may, according to subsequent guidance from Sicredi Central N/NE or success in the administrative scope, be credited to members, in the total of R$ 3,181,202.76 (three million, one hundred and eighty-one thousand, two hundred and two reais and seventy-six cents), which must remain in the accounting caption “Surplus to Distribute" until payment is made in a judicial account linked to the action itself. 5 - Presentation and assessment of the Action Plan for 2018: Mr. President then moved on to the third item on the Agenda, to present the Action Plan for 2018, which was done using several screens containing a summary of the main agoes and goals to be implemented during the current year. Once the presentation was concluded, the matter was put up for discussion and finally approved unanimously. 6 - Establishment of the fees of the members of the Executive Board, the President of the Board of Directors and the attendance records of the members of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council, with those legally prevented from voting abstaining from voting. The following values ​​were unanimously approved: - President of the Board of Directors - R$ 32,017.60 (thirty-two thousand, seventeen reais and sixty cents); - Executive Director - R$ 32,017.60 (thirty-two thousand, seventeen reais and sixty cents); - Operations and Business Directors R$ 28,815.83 (twenty-eight thousand, fifteen reais and eighty-three cents) OAB/PB '$207 5/6 - Certificates of presence of members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils - R$ 2,401.32 (two thousand, four hundred and one reais and thirty-two cents). It was still unanimously approved the implementation of the new systemic remuneration model, in which the Christmas Bonus (13th salary) will be paid to the Presidency of the Board of Directors and members of the Executive Board; and Medical Assistance Plan for the Presidency of the Board of Directors, members of the Executive Board and their spouses, to be implemented after the migration of technology to the Sicredi System, with the exception of the amount related to the Christmas installment (13th salary ) what should be paid for the 2017 financial year. There being no further business to discuss, the meeting ended, the minutes of which, read and found to be in compliance, are signed by the president, the directors, the secretary and the associates designated by the Assembly, who wish to do so. Io. Finally, we assume full responsibility for the fidelity of the statements made herein, with the Central Bank of Brazil being hereby authorized to make, within legal limits and, in court or out of court, whatever use it sees fit. We declare, for all due purposes, that this is a faithful and complete copy of what is found in the Joao Pessoa P own book of February 2018. \ \ one 393! “ office Bezerra Jﬁnio - resident of Cons I of The ministry of icredi Joéo Pessoa vs/' . ério ébrega Ferreira de Melo executive at Sicredi Joao Pessoa re ' Iééedaéaﬁ/4- D ur a0 0 alcio da Cunha Lima Director of erages at Sicredi Joéo Pessoa 6/6