SUMMARY MINUTES CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SICREDI EVOLUCAO — SICREDI EvoLucZ\o CNPJ 35.571149/0001-31 — Av. Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca, n9 410 - Torre -1050 Pessoa - PB — NIRE 25400001072 SUMMARY MINUTES OF ASSEMB EXTRAORDINARY DIGITAL GENERAL READING I —» On the 19th day of June 2023, at 5:00 pm on third call, through digital mode for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform, via the website yyyv.\_.ygjgregiircg[}];tgj§§ggmQLaj§_§ljgj_1al, the Extraordinary Digital General Assembly of the COOPERATNA DE CREDITO, PUPANCA E INVESTIMENTO SICREDI EVOLU(;l'\0 - SICREDI EVOLU(,'. I7\O, in accordance with |N«DREl n9 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43—A; ~ Clarified that on this date there are 51,174 members eligible to vote. Call Notice published on the website of cooperative on July 9, 2023. — Also informed that the Notice was published on the website of the Sicredi Evolugao, address WWW,SiCrecjj:§Q5jfl}[[§;QQp[§\.:QlQ§§_Q;_ on the access platform 2 Assembly at www sis:_r_r_eg3 ggmjqgasgggmygjgdigital; posted in visible and appropriate locations at the headquarters and other PAs of the Cooperative, electronic messages to members via cell phones and the Cooperative's social networks; — I also inform that the meeting was being recorded and that it was taking place digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform, included in the Notice all instructions for member registration, form of access, demonstration, participation and voting at the assembly. ll - ATTENDANCE: \ (\\'~\ — In total, 939 (nine hundred and thirty-nine) members registered to participate in the meeting. 3 \ They were present, according to the electronic record of the platform used at 3pm (fifteen hours), in “ ' at first call, 339 members; at 4pm (sixteen hours), at second call, 672 members, and at 5pm (seventeen hours), in the third and final call, 939 members, after verifying the legal quorum for installation and deliberation, the EGM was held, under the presidency of Dr. \‘ João Bezerra Junior, President of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Evolugao. /4 K ' III - COMPOSIC,'/7\O OF THE BOARD: ' Dr Joao Bezerra Junior - President of the Board of Directors Classification of information Internal Use Dr. Paulo Valéric Nolirega Ferreira de Melo — Executive Director Mr. Lourival Lopes — Director of Operations Dr. Ana Karla Almeida de Medeiros Delgado — Coordinator of the Fiscal Council Mr. Thales de Sousa Cavalcanti — Superintendent Dr. Caius Marcellus Lacerda -Legal Advisor and "ad hoc" Secretary of work IV - DEL|BERA(,'6ES: They were taken and approved by vote of those present, with those legally prevented from voting abstaining from voting, the following deliberations: IN EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY: 1 - Partial reform of the Cooperative's Social Statute and its consolidation, with adaptation to the systemic standard text, comprising the following amendments Arts. 69; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; 18; 19; 24; 25; 26: 29; 30; 31; 33; 34; 36; 38; 54; 55. It was also explained that the Bylaws with the proposed changes were published on the Sicredi Evolugao website and on the Digital Assembly platform since June 9th. Art:. 69 — Change entry I to the following wording "I — participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are dealt with"; r Art. 13 ' . — Insert the following paragraphs: "§ 19 The rendering of accounts at the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of components of the management and fiscal councils, when they were matters on the agenda of the general assembly must be previously considered in the branch meetings, which may be in person and/or remotely, through physical and/or electronic means; ”§ 29 The other matters covered by the agenda of the general meeting may be decided directly in Delegates' Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Administration Council.”; "§ 39 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, - Va cooperative dare’: subsequent information to members." and "§ 4‘—’ The coordination of the assembly or, even if this is impossible, by whomever that person indicates." Art. 14 Classification of information: Internal Use — Change to the following wording ”Art. 14. General assemblies will normally be called by the President of the Administrative Council, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, by means of a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Cooperative's electronic website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet ." — Change § 29 to the following wording "§ 29 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: — Change 0 § 29, section H and III to the following wordings: "II - 0 day and time from the assembly, as well as the C0l'\'\O farm will be carried out"; "Ill — the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications." means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously.” and "V — the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in case of holding remote assembly, or in person and in attendance simultaneously." — Renumber item IV of § 29 to item VI and change it to the following wording: "VI — the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of installation quorum. ” — Delete 0 § 49. — Renumber 0 § 59 to § 49 of item VII and change it to the following wording "§ 49 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegatessp” "r Art. 15 — To alter items for the following wording: ”| — 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call;|1— half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III — 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call.” P Insert the following Arts.: “Art. 16. At general assemblies, associates, grouped by nucleus, will be represented; by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and its own regulations, being able to attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 19 Delegates will deliberate on all issues on the agenda. § 29 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When new delegates are elected, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 39 During the term of office, the delegate 50 may simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If you are appointed to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, you must resign \\ at the same time from the post of delegate. § 49 Whenever matters are assessed by the GJ associates in their respective nuclei, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the nucleus he represents.” "Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of vacancies of delegates among the nuclei will be carried out based on their own regulations and the following parameters: I — the Cooperative will group its members in (fifty) wucleos, observing the appropriate regulations; II — the grouping of members and 9 Classiﬁcation of informationoz Internal use will take place in a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 19 An effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the associates who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elective positions in society, respecting the others requirements set out in regulations. § 29 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 39 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and specific procedures for its execution. § 49 In the event of a tie vote, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative." ‘r Renumber following Arts. ‘r Art. 16 - Renumber to Art. 19 and change to the following wording ”Art. 19. N50 If it is possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days." — Insert Sole Paragraph with the following wording "Single Paragraph. In the event of the general assembly under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates — effective and substitutes — will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute." 2 Ar'-1. 17 — Renumber to Art. 20. — Amend 0 § 29 to the following wording: "§ 29 When the general assembly has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and secretariated by a delegate or other member chosen at the time, with the main stakeholders in the call forming the Board.” ‘r Art. 18 — Renumber to Art. 21 and change to the following wording: "Art. 21. The delegate cannot represent Nucieo in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to it, in which case the Nucleus will be represented by its deputy or another initiated associate, as the case may be.” Art. 19 list to Art. 22 and change wording to: "Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, held in open voting unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by simple majority, except for matters of exclusive competence of the general assembly / ./ Classification of information: Internal use assembly by the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as wish to do so.” 'r Art. 24 — Renumber to Art. 27 and change to the following wording "Art. 27' The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 13 (thirteen) advisors, among them, a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the application and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements provided for in Sicrediz's internal regulations" - Change sections to the following wording: "I — not maintain, since application , employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even, with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; IX — have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (being an active member) and having participated in at least 2 (two) core assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; XII — preferably be exercising the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, as holder or substitute, or holding a statutory position in the cooperative." — Delete item XIII — Insert item XIII with the next essay "XIII ~ have Crescer Program certification." — Change ini:i:; habitual provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasting more than 3 (three) months.” — Insert 0 § 7.9 with the following wording “§ 19 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in section I VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered” — Exempt following paragraphs. “kyfriserir § 49 with the following wording: "§ 49 Possession of the document(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body.” — Renumber paragraphs following. Art' 25 — Renumber to Ari" 28. — Change § 39 to the following wording: "§ 39 Meetings of the Board of Directors must be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including by electronic means. ' Classification of information: Internal use \ 'r Art. 26 — Renumber to Art. 29. — Change item IV to the following wording: ”|V » appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, in compliance with the provisions contained in the statute." — Insert item \/ with the following wording: "V » register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board." — Renumber item XII to XIII and amend to the following wording "XIII » to authorize, in advance, capital participations in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting complementary or ancillary purposes, in the interest of the social framework and community of the Cooperative and the current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard are respected.” — Insert the following items: "XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing share capital among members" and "XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting associates and increasing social capital through the associates.” — Renumber next section. 'r Delete Art. 29 } Art. 30 ,, — Renumber to Art. 32 and change to the following wording "Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of / interest of the company, composed of 3 (three) Directors, being an Executive Director, a Director of 0 Eragées and a Business Director." — Insert § 39 with the following wording "§ 39 Possession of the electorals) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body.” - Renumber following paragraphs. — Renumber § 39 to § 49 and change it to the following wording "§ 49 The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or out of court, actively and passively, except for the provisions of item VIII of article 30, obligatorily" Insert item III to § 49 , with the following wording: "III — by 2 (two) attorneys together with x specific powers." Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 31 - Renumber to Art. 33. — Change items I and II to the following wording: ”| - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and XIV to XVII, as well as 0 of § 29 "and "II » comply with the provisions of §§ 89 and 99 of art. 27." Art. 33 — Renumber to Art. 35 — Delete item IV — Change § 29 to the following wording: “§ 29 The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, but may, however, meet in person and/or at distance, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within his competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they consider it necessary to formalize a meeting." Art. 34 — Renumber to Art. 36 and change to the following wording: "Art. 36. In the event of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 79, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may not be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors.” Art. 36 - Renumber to Art. 38 and change to the following wording: ”Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be regularly monitored and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) deputy, all associated with individuals, elected by the general assembly, observing the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions , the provisions of rt. 27, items I to XVII, of this Statute.” — Change § 19 to the following wording: "§ 19 The election of the members of the Fiscal Council requires slate (5) complete (5), independent (s) and unrelated (5) to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 29 of art. 27 of this Statute." — Change § 2'-' to the following wording "§ 29 The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a service provider or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through of a legal entity of which he is the majority shareholder or administrator, considering as usual the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of frequency, lasts more than 3 (three) months." Classification of informationoz Internal Use 'r Art. 38 — Renumber to Art. 40. - Change 0 § 29 to following wording: "§ 29 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in article 27, § 79, of these Statutes apply to the Fiscal Council, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members." r Insert 0 Art 54, with the following wording "Art. S4. 05 current members of the Board of Directors will have their mandates preserved until the inauguration of their successors, elected at the 2025 Ordinary General Assembly.” r Insert 0 Art. 55, with the following wording: ”Art. 55. The current positions of the Executive Board and their occupants will have their mandates preserved until the inauguration of their successors, elected at the first meeting of the Board of Directors that will take place after the 2025 AGM, at which time the position of Regional Director will be abolished ." Then the President continued the A.G.E. agenda. with items 2 and 3, highlighting that the regulations were published on the Sicredi Evolugéo website and on the Digital Assembly platform since June 9th. They are: 2 — Approval of the Electoral Code (the text of which is part of these minutes) and 3 — Approval of the Belonging Regulation (the text of which is part of these minutes); After due explanations and interactions with associates, the statutory changes (item 1), as well as the Electoral Code (item 2) and the Belonging Regulation (agenda 3) were approved by a large majority of members, with 309 (three hundred and nine) approvals, 69 (sixty-nine) disapprovals and 17 (seventeen) abstentions. Next, continuing with the matters on the agenda: 4 — Approval of the Standard—Remuneration; Statutory Section (the text of which is part of these minutes) and 5 — Approval of the Standard—Benefits—President Vice President and Statutory Directors (the text of which is part of this minutes), and it is also explained that the regulations based on They were then published on the Sicredi Evolugao website and on the .<\ssembleia Digital platform since June 9th. After the appropriate on-screen presentations, explanations and interactions via chat with members, the guidelines (4 and 5) were approved by the majority of members, with 269 (two hundred and sixty-nine) approvals, 101 (one hundred and one) disapprovals and 19 ( nineteen) abstentions. There was no further business to discuss, the meeting ended, the minutes of which, read and found to be in order, were signed by the president, directors, secretary and associates designated by the Assembly who wish to do so. Finally, we assume full responsibility for the fidelity of the statements made herein, with the Central Bank of Brazil now being authorized to make them, within legal limits and, in court or out of court, for whatever use it sees fit. Classification of information Internal use \_ We declare, for all due purposes, that these minutes are a faithful and complete copy of what Iavrada is found in the book itself. Joéio Pessoa/PB, June 19, 202 . .W\C‘ 50 Bezera Jﬁnior sident do Co 5 ho de Ag\mini tragic da Sicredi Evolugﬁo [W /\ “ io ébregaFreirade Melo 9/9 Classification of information: Internal Use