SICREDI ELECTORAL CODE EVOLUTION MARCH/2022 SICREDI ELECTORAL CODE EVOLUTION CHAPTER I Initial provisions Art. 1 This Electoral Code establishes the systemic rules of the election process for the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of Sicredi's individual cooperatives. Art. 2 The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the legislation, the bylaws of individual cooperatives and the rules of this Code. CHAPTER II Electoral Procedure in Individual Cooperatives Without Delegated Vote Section I Electoral Commission Art. 3 The electoral process will be conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, ensuring its autonomy and independence. § 1 The Commission will be appointed by the Administration Council; § 2º The Commission will be composed of 06 (six) associates of natural persons, of which 3 (three) are effective members and 3 (three) alternate members, subject to the following requirements: a) not composing the list of candidates; b) not be holding a position on the Board of Directors, Fiscal Council or on the Executive Board of the Cooperative; c) not be spouses, partners, relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, of candidates or current mandate holders on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; d) not be employees of the Cooperative. § 3 Nominations must be made by November 30th of the year before the elections, through a Resolution of the Board of Directors. § 4 Members who leave the Cooperative will automatically lose the position they held on the electoral commissions. Art. 4 The Electoral Commission is responsible for: I - receiving the registration protocols of candidate lists; II - analyze whether registered candidates meet the legal, statutory and this Code requirements necessary for candidacy positions and academic positions and other aspects related to the electoral process; III - approve or not the registered plate(s); IV - define the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period prior to or during the general meeting; V - define whether the vote will be by acclamation or secret, including the operational aspects related to the election, especially when there is more than one ticket registered, such as: a) the model of ballots voting or electronic voting, the location of ballot boxes and voting booths, as applicable; b) the procedures for determining the results of the election, including requesting, if necessary, the support of members present to monitor the process and assist in counting the votes; c) processing and forwarding requests received from candidates regularly registered in the process; d) the beginning and end of the voting process; e) the general instructions relating to the process and the result of the vote. VI - inform the registered candidate(s) of their decisions; VII - resolve omitted cases; VIII - apply the penalties provided for in this Code or in the Minutes of the Electoral Commission. IX- In the event of a single ticket, the election may be carried out by acclamation, as defined in the General Assembly itself, and if there are no candidates for the positions provided for in the Call Notice for the relevant General Assembly, the electoral process may be simplified, subject to proof of no electoral impediment and also for the exercise of the positions to be filled. § 1 The meetings will be recorded in minutes and the resolutions are valid by the decision of a simple majority, with the majority of the committee members present. § 2 At the first meeting held, the Commission will choose a coordinator and a secretary from among its members. § 3 In the absence of members of the Electoral Commission at the general assembly, the Commission will appoint a representative. § 4 The Electoral Commission may request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative for the work of the Commission. § 5 In the event of a tie in the voting for candidates for the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, at the general meeting, the candidate whose group of candidates presents the longest average time of association with the Cooperative will be considered the winner. § 6 Except for express and individual consent, in accordance with the General Personal Data Protection Law, they will not be provided any personal data of associates for the purposes set out in this Code. Art. 5 The practice of the following acts is prohibited by any member of the board, by themselves or by interposed persons: I - using information protected by bank secrecy or by the General Data Protection Law; II - adopt practices that may cause harm or damage to the image of Sicredi or any of Sicredi's member entities; III - threaten or coerce members or collaborators of the Cooperative; IV - propagate untruths or information without due confirmation; V - offer advantages or privileges in exchange for votes; VI - use the Sicredi brand; VII - Infringes current legislation, the Cooperative's Bylaws or this Code. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may provide, in the minutes, other practices that it considers prohibited. Art. 6 The practice of any of the infractions provided for in this Code will subject the Board to violator of the following sanctions, applied alternately or cumulatively at the discretion of the Electoral Commission, without prejudice to civil and criminal liability: I - warning, in writing; II - temporary suspension of any propaganda manifestation of the ticket, in any medium and location; III - revocation of the candidate's candidacy. § 1 The application of the penalty(s) will be preceded by notification to the Board so that, within the deadline set by the Electoral Commission, it can present a response. § 2 Whether or not the response mentioned in § 1 of this article is received, within the fixed period, the Electoral Commission will decide on the application of the penalty, with due communication to Chapa. § 3 All penalties applied will be communicated by the Electoral Commission at the General Assembly. Section II Registration of the Board(s) Art. 7 The Chairman of the Board of Directors will disclose to the membership, at least 30 (thirty) days before the General Meeting is held, the opening of the deadline for registration of the slate(s) for election to the Board of Directors and/or Supervisor. § 1 The disclosure will be posted in a visible place, preferably in branches, other forms of disclosure will be provided, at the discretion of the Cooperative. This publication must contain, at a minimum: a) the registration period for the ticket, indicating the times; b) the place where the plate is registered; c) indication of the documents necessary for registration of the plate. § 2 The deadline for registration of the list(s) will begin with the disclosure mentioned in this article and will end 15 (fifteen) days before the General Assembly, and the application for registration must be filed at the Cooperative's headquarters between 9 (9) and 17 (seventeen hours. § 3 The ticket registration protocol will be numbered in chronological order and must be accompanied by the documents required by this Code, an email address or telephone number for contact and be signed by one of its members, who will be the representative of the ticket for all purposes. § 4 Once the registration period has closed, the Cooperative will publish the list of registered slate(s) the following day. § 5 The slate(s) for the Board of Directors and the slate(s) for the Fiscal Council must be independent and complete. § 6 Individual registrations for candidacy for elective positions will not be accepted, and simultaneous participation in more than one a plate. Art. 8 Once the registered slates have been published, any person, whether associated or not, will have a period of 2 (two) days to present an objection, duly accompanied by supporting documents. Single paragraph. If there is an objection, a period of 2 (two) days will be opened for the contested ticket to respond and, as soon as the deadline has expired, the documentation will be forwarded to the Electoral Commission. Art. 9 Within 10 (ten) days of the General Assembly, the Electoral Commission will meet to: I - decide on any objections; II - analyze compliance with legal, statutory and statutory requirements and this Code; III - approve or not the plate(s). § 1 Before deciding whether or not to approve the plate(s), the Commission may: I - request additional information, or determine measures, to be served within 2 (two) days, and, after analyzing these , decide, as appropriate; II - for a single time, determine the replacement of c candidate(s) who do not meet the corresponding requirements, to be served within 2 (two) days, and must comply with the provisions of art. 8th of this Code; III - accept replacement in case of death; IV - receive, up to 5 (five) days before the deadline set out in § 4 of this article, a single request to replace candidate(s), per ticket, indicating the respective substitute. § 2 Non-approval will cover the entire list, even when the objection granted concerns only one or some of its components. § 3º There will be no appeal against the decision on the approval or not of the plate(s). § 4 Up to 3 (three) days before the General Assembly, the Commission will publish the final nomination, in a visible place and easily accessible to interested parties, on the Cooperative's premises. § 5 Once the final nomination has been announced, the approved plate(s) cannot be changed, except in the case of death. § 6º In the case of a single plate, after approval, the replacement of a candidate in the event of withdrawal, death or when it is found that the corresponding requirements are not met. § 7 In the event that replacement is admitted after approval of the candidate (§ 5 and § 6), the Electoral Commission will grant a period of 2 (two) days for the candidate to replace the candidate, subject to the requirements for the candidacy and the provisions of art. 8th of this Code. Art. 10. Once the ticket(s) has been approved, the Electoral Commission must hold a meeting in order to define: I - the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period prior to or during the general meeting, with the use of the Sicredi brand by any candidate being prohibited; II - the operational aspects related to the election and voting, especially when there is more than one regularly registered ticket. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may invite representatives of the slates to participate in the meeting that this article deals with. Art. 11. Regardless of the method of choosing the members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils, the registration of candidates and/or slates at the General Assembly will not be permitted. Section III Documents Art. 12. Along with the request for a protocol for each candidate, the applicants are responsible for delivering the documents for each candidate, listed below, the veracity of which will be verified by the Electoral Commission, using the means at its disposal: the copy authenticated identification document and C PF; b) declaration of disqualification from holding the position, if elected, for the management or supervisory body; c) negative or positive certificates with the effect of denying federal, state and municipal tax and contribution debts, including from any company of which you are the controller or administrator; d) civil, state and federal certificate, from the respective domiciles and where they carry out activity, issued with the date no more than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery, including from any company of which it is the controller or administrator; e) criminal, state and federal certificate of the respective domiciles, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; f) electoral criminal certificate, issued no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; g) negative or positive certificate with negative effects of labor debts; h) negative certificate of security protest; i) declaration issued by the candidate that he or she is not on the register of issuers of bad checks (CCF); j) copy of the last income tax declaration, or the exemption declaration, in both cases with the updated asset stratification; k) professional CV; l) form provided by the Cooperative, duly completed and signed by all members of the list(s); m) With With the exception of the declaration of presence at the General Assemblies, all other documents referred to in the previous sub-items are the exclusive responsibility of the candidates, who will be responsible for obtaining them from the competent bodies/entities. Sole paragraph. The electoral commission will be responsible for analyzing cases and occurrences that are related to items "c", "d" and "h", in accordance with the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER III Final Provisions Art. 13. The deadlines provided for in this Code will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Single paragraph. If the due date falls on a holiday or weekend, the deadline will be considered extended until the next business day. Art. 14. The provisions set out in this Electoral Code do not apply to the election to fill a vacant position on the Administrative or Fiscal Council already elected, in which case the replacement must be previously appointed by the respective council, observing legal and statutory requirements. Art. 15 . As additional requirements to the basic conditions for applying for the position of Member of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council, as provided for in Article 24 of the Bylaws, we have: I - be a natural person and associated with SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO for a period of no less than 48 (forty-eight) months, counting from the date of registration of their respective license plate; II - have a certificate or be studying an MBA or Post-Graduation in credit cooperative training with a minimum duration of 360 (three hundred and sixty) hours, promoted or sponsored by SICREDI or by an Institution or Body linked to credit cooperativism, for all members who wish to participate participate in, or even have a Higher Education, Postgraduate, Master's or Doctorate degree, in the areas of Administration, Economics or Accounting;