Classification of information: Internal Use SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO ELECTORAL CODE JUNE /2023 Information classification: Internal Use SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO ELECTORAL CODE CHAPTER I Initial provisions Art. 1 This Electoral Code establishes the systemic rules of the election process for the Board of Directors and for the Supervisory Board of Sicredi’s individual cooperatives. Art. 2 The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the legislation, in the bylaws of individual cooperatives and the rules of this Code. CHAPTER II Electoral Procedure in Individual Cooperatives Without Delegated Vote Section I Electoral Commission Art. 3 The electoral process will be conducted by an Electoral Commission created specifically for this purpose, for each election, ensuring its autonomy and independence. § 1 The Commission will be appointed by the Board of Directors at least in advance necessary to meet all the deadlines essential for organizing the electoral process. § 2 The Commission will be composed of at least 03 (three) individual members, with the option of appointing substitutes, subject to the following requirements: a) not being part of the list of candidates; b) not be holding a position on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; c) not be spouses, partners, relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, online direct or collateral, of candidates or occupants of current mandates on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; d) not be employees of the Cooperative. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 4 The Electoral Commission is responsible for: I - receiving registration protocols for candidate lists; II - analyze whether the registered candidates meet the legal, statutory requirements and this Code necessary to run for elected positions and to other aspects related to the electoral process; III - approve or not the registered plate(s); IV - define the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period prior to or during the general meeting; V - define whether voting will be by acclamation or secret, including the operational aspects related to the election, especially when there is more than one ticket registered, such as: a) the model of voting ballots or electronic voting, the location of ballot boxes and voting booths, as applicable; b) the procedures for determining the results of the election, including requesting, if necessary, the support of members present to monitor the process and assist in counting the votes; c) processing and forwarding requests received from candidates regularly registered in the process; d) the beginning and end of the voting process; e) general instructions relating to the process and the result of the vote. VI - give inform the registered panel(s) of their decisions; VII - resolve omitted cases; VIII - apply the penalties provided for in this Code or in the Minutes of the Electoral Commission. § 1 The meetings will be recorded in minutes and the deliberations are valid only by the decision of a simple majority, with the majority of the committee members present. § 2 At the first meeting held, the Commission will choose a coordinator and a secretary from among its members. § 3 In the absence of members of the Commission Electoral at the core assembly, the Commission will appoint a representative. Classification of information: Internal Use § 4 The Electoral Commission may request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative for the Commission's work. § 5 In the event of a tie in the voting for candidates for the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, at the general meeting, the candidate whose group of candidates has the longest average time of association with the Cooperative will be considered the winner. § 6th Save express and individual consent, in accordance with the General Personal Data Protection Law, no personal data of associates will be provided for the purposes set out in this Code. Art. 5 The practice of the following acts is prohibited by any member of the board, by themselves or by interposed persons: I - using information protected by banking secrecy or by the General Data Protection Law; II - adopt practices that may cause damage or damage to the image Sicredi or any of Sicredi’s member entities; III - threaten or coerce members or collaborators of the Cooperative; IV - propagate untruths or information without due proof; V - offer advantages or privileges in exchange for votes; VI - use the Sicredi brand; VII - Infringes current legislation, the Cooperative's Bylaws or this Code. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may provide, in minutes, other practices that it considers prohibited. Art. 6º The practice of any of the infractions provided for in this Code will subject the offending Board to the following sanctions, applied alternately or cumulatively at the discretion of the Electoral Commission, without prejudice to civil and criminal liability: I - warning, in writing; II - temporary suspension of any propaganda manifestation of the ticket, in any medium and location; III - revocation of the candidate's candidacy. Classification of information: Internal Use § 1 The application of the penalty(s) will be preceded by notification to the Board so that, within the deadline set by the Electoral Commission, it can present a response. § 2 Whether or not the response mentioned in § 1 of this article is received, within the set deadline, the Electoral Commission will decide on the application of the penalty, with due communication to Chapa. § 3 All penalties applied will be communicated by the Electoral Commission at the Assemblies. Section II Registration of the Board(s) Art. 7º The President of the Council of The Administration will announce to the membership, at least 45 (forty-five) days before the Core Assembly, the opening of the registration period for the slate(s) for the election of the Board of Directors and/or Supervisor. § 1 The disclosure will be posted in a visible location, preferably in agencies, other forms of disclosure being provided, at the discretion of the Cooperative. This disclosure must contain, at a minimum: a) the registration period for the ticket, indicating the schedules; b) the place where the plate is registered; c) indication of the documents necessary for registration of the ticket. § 2 The deadline for registration of the slate(s) will begin with the disclosure mentioned in this article and will end 30 (thirty) days before the first Nucleus Assembly is held, and the application for registration must be filed at the headquarters of the Cooperation between 9 (nine) and 5 (seventeen) hours. § 3 The ticket registration protocol will be numbered in chronological order and must be accompanied by the documents required by this Code, an email address or contact telephone number and be signed by one of its members, who will be the representative of the slate for all purposes. § 4 Once the registration period has ended, the Cooperative will publish the list of registered slate(s) the following day. § 5 The slate(s) for the Board of Directors and the slate(s) for the Fiscal Council must be independent and complete. § 6 Individual registrations for candidacy for elected positions will not be accepted, and simultaneous participation on more than one ticket is prohibited. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 8 Once the registered slates have been published, any person, whether associated or not, will have a period of 2 (two) days to present an objection, duly accompanied by supporting documents. Single paragraph. If there is an objection, a period of 2 (two) days for the contested ticket to respond and, as soon as the deadline has expired, the documentation will be forwarded to the Electoral Commission. Art. 9 Up to 10 (ten) days before the First Core Assembly, the Electoral Commission will meet to: I - decide on any objections; II - analyze compliance with legal, statutory requirements and this Code; III - approve or not the plate(s). § 1 Before deciding whether or not to approve the plate(s), the Commission may: I - request additional information, or determine measures, for assistance within 2 (two) days, and, after analyzing this, decide, as appropriate; II - for a single time, determine the replacement of candidate(s) who do not meet the corresponding requirements, for service within 2 (two) days, and must comply with the provisions of art. 8th of this Code; III - accept replacement in case of death; IV - receive, up to 5 (five) days before the deadline set out in § 4 of this article, a single request to replace candidate(s), per ticket, indicating the respective replacement. § 2 Non-approval will cover the entire plate, even when the granted objection concerns only one or some of its components. § 3º There will be no appeal against the decision on the approval or not of the ticket(s). § 4 Up to 3 (three) days before the first Core Assembly, the Commission will publish the final nomination, in a visible place and easily accessible to interested parties, in the Cooperative dependencies. § 5 Once the final name has been announced, the approved plate(s) cannot be changed, except in the case of death. § 6 In the case of a single ticket, after approval, candidate replacement is permitted in the event of withdrawal, death or when it is found that the corresponding requirements are not met. Classification of information: Internal Use § 7º In the hypothesis in which replacement is allowed after approval of the plate (§ 5º and § 6º), the The Electoral Commission will grant a period of 2 (two) days for the candidate to replace the candidate, observing the requirements for the candidacy and the provisions of art. 8th of this Code. Art. 10. Once the ticket(s) has been approved, the Electoral Commission must hold a meeting in order to define: I - the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period preceding or during the general meeting , the use of the Sicredi brand by any candidate; II - the operational aspects related to the election and voting, especially when there is more than one regularly registered ticket. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may invite representatives of the slates to participate in the meeting referred to in this article. Art. 11. Regardless of how members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Boards are chosen, the registration of candidates and/or slates at the Core Assembly or general assembly will not be permitted. Section III Documents Art. 12. Along with the request for a protocol for each candidate, the applicants are responsible for delivering the documents for each candidate, listed below, the veracity of which will be verified by the Electoral Commission, using the means at their disposal: a ) certified copy of the identification document and CPF; b) declaration of disqualification from holding the position, if elected, for the management or supervisory body; c) negative or positive certificates with effects of negative debts for federal, state and municipal taxes and contributions, including those of any company of which you are a controller or administrator; d) civil, state and federal certificate, from the respective domiciles and where they carry out activity, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for delivery, including from any company of which they are controlling or administrator; Classification of information: Internal Use e) criminal certificate, state and federal of their respective domiciles, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; f) electoral criminal certificate, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; g) negative or positive certificate with negative effects on labor debts; h) negative certificate of security protest; i) declaration issued by the candidate that he does not appear on the register of issuers of checks without funds (CCF); j) copy of the last income tax declaration, or the exemption declaration, in both cases with the updated asset stratification; k) professional CV; l) form provided by the Cooperative duly completed and signed by all members of the slate(s); m) Declaration of Attendance at Meetings, as provided in the Bylaws; §1º With the exception of the declaration of presence at the General Assemblies, all other documents of dealing with the previous sub-items are the exclusive responsibility of the candidates, who will be responsible for obtaining them from the competent bodies/entities. § 2 The electoral commission will be responsible for analyzing cases and occurrences that are related to items "c", "d" and "h", in accordance with the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER III Final Provisions Art. 13. The deadlines provided for in this Code will be counted in calendar days, excluding the day of beginning and including the end day. Single paragraph. If the due date falls on a holiday or weekend, the deadline will be considered extended until the next business day. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 14. The provisions set out in this Electoral Code do not apply to the election to fill a vacant position on the Board of Directors or Supervisors already elected, in which case the replacement must be previously appointed by the respective board , observing the legal and statutory requirements. Art. 15 . As additional requirements to the basic conditions for applying for the position of Member of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council, as provided for in Article 24 of the Bylaws, we have: I - be a natural person and associated with SICREDI EVO LUAÇÃO for a period of no less than 48 (forty-eight) months, counting from the date of registration of their respective ticket; II - have a certificate or be studying (with a minimum of 50% load hours completed) MBA or Post-Graduate credit cooperative training with a minimum duration of 360 (three hundred and sixty) hours, promoted or sponsored by SICREDI or by an Institution or Body linked to credit cooperativism, or even possess or be studying (with minimum of 50% of the workload completed) Postgraduate, Master's or Doctorate, in the areas of Administration, Economics or Accounting, provided that the entities and courses are obligatorily accredited and recognized by the MEC.