CALL NOTICE EXTRAORDINARY DIGITAL GENERAL MEETINGSicredi Evoluç ãoAv. Marechal Deodoro da F onseca, 4 10 - Torre - CEP 58040-140 - João Pessoa - PB CNPJ: 35.571.249/0001-31 - State Registration: Exempt - NIRE: 25400001072 Phone: (83) 2107.3600 sicredi.c om.br /evolucao (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43-A) 3. On the day and time of the meeting, the member must access the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleias again, informing their CPF and registered password, click at your cooperative's event and will be able to participate in discussions and votes on items on the agenda. To participate in the digital assembly you must follow the following steps: 2. Through the link www .sicredi.com.br/assembleias, the member must register by creating a password; 1. The member must check that their telephone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or by contacting their cooperative; Voting will be carried out by through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool. The Assembly will be held in an exclusive digital format, based on art. 43-A, of Law 5,764/71 and INDREI nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. the virtual meeting room at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, the right to express a written statement, addressed to the board of directors, via chat, will be guaranteed, thus safeguarding their full participation under the terms of Normative Instruction DREI No. 81/2020. *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: members must access the tool through the website www .sicredi.com.br/assembleias, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, through any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will admitted to join the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time. The President and the Board of Directors of CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERA TIVA SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO – SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO, headquartered at Av. Marechal Deodor o da Fonseca, 410 - Torre - CEP 58040-140 - João Pessoa – PB, registered with the CNPJ under no. 35.571. 249/0001-31, using the powers conferred on it by the Cooperative's Social Statute, invites its MEMBERS, who on this date total 51,174 (fifty-one thousand, one hundred and seventy-four), in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet in Extraor General Assembly Digital meeting, to be held digitally, on June 19, 2023, at 3 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, at first call; at 4pm, with the presence of half plus one of the members, on second call; at 5pm with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform* accessed via the website www .sicredi.com.br/assembleias, to deliberate on the following subjects, which make up the agenda: 4. Approval of the Statutory Norm-R on remuneration; 5. Approval of the Standard-Benefits-President, Vice-President and Statutory Directors. Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information about registration and use of the tool for participating in meetings will be available to members at the link www.sicredi.com.br/coop/ev olucao and at the headquarters of the cooperative The. 2. Approval of the Electoral Code;1. Partial reform of the cooperative's Social Statute and its consolidation, adapting it to the Systemic model; 3. Approval of the Belonging Regulation; AT AN EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING: CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS João Bezerr to Júnior João Pessoa (PB), June 9, 2023.