BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO – SICREDI EVOLUAÇÃO CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, TERM OF DURATION AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration ration Art. 1 The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative S icredi Evolucion – Sicredi Evolucion, established at the general meeting of December 19, 1990, is a financial institution, a cooperative society, without profitable and limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in João Pessoa, Av. Marechal Deodoro da Fonseca, nº 410, Torre, CEP 58040-140, in this State of Paraíba; II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi Nordeste, limited to the municipalities of the State of Paraíba: João Pessoa, Água Branca, Ala goa Grande, Alagoa Nova, Alagoinha, Alcantil, Algodão de Jandaíra, Alhandra, Amparo, Ar açagi, Arara, Araruna, Areia, Areia de Baraúnas, Areial, Aroeiras, Assunção, Baía da Traiç ão, Bananeiras, Baraúna, Barra de Santana, Barra de Santa Rosa, Barra de São Miguel, Bayeux, B elém, Boa Vista, Bonito of Santa Fé, Boqueirão, Borborema, Brejo do Cruz, Caaporã, Caba ceiras, Cabedelo, Cacimba de Areia, Cacimba de Dentro, Cacimbas, Caiçara, Caldas Brandã o, Camalaú, Campina Grande, Capim, Caraúbas, Casserengue, Catingueira, Caturité, Conception, County, Count, Congo, Coremas, Coxixola, Cruz do Espírito Santo, Cubati, Cuité, Cu ité de Mamanguape, Cuitegí, Curral de Cima, Damião, Desterro, Dona Inês, Duas Estradas, Emas, E esperança, Fagundes, Frei Martinho, Gado Bravo, Guarabira, Gurinhém, Gurjão , Imaculada, Ingá , Itabaiana, Itapororoca, Itatuba, Jacaraú, Juarez Távora, Juazeirinho, Junco do Seridó, Juripi ranga, Juru, Lagoa de Dentro, Lagoa Seca, Livramento, Logradouro, Lucena, Mãe D'água, Matinha s, Malta, Mamanguape, Marcação, Mari, Massaranduba, Mataraca, Maturéia, Mogeiro, Montadas, Monteiro, Mulungú, Natuba, Nova Floresta, Nova Palmeira, Olho d'Água, Olivedos, Our o Velho, Parari, Passagem, Patos, Paulista, Pedra Lavada, Pedras de Fogo, Pedro Régis, Piancó, Picuí , Pilar, Pilões, Pilõezinhos, Pirpirituba, Pitimbu, Pocinhos, Prata, Princesa Isabel, Puxinanã , Queimadas, Quixabá, Remígio, Riachão, Riachão do Bacamarte, Riachão do Poço, Riacho de Santo Antônio, Riacho dos Cavalos, Rio Tinto, Salgadinho , Salgado de São Félix, Santa Cecilia, Santa Luzia, Santa Rita, Santa Teresinha, Santana dos Garrotes, Santo André, São Domingos do Cariri, São João do Cariri, São João do Tigre, São José de Espinharas, São José de Piranhas, São José do Bonfim, São José do Sabugi, São José dos Cordeiros, São José dos Ramos, São Mamede, São Migu el de Taipu, São Sebastião de Lagoa de Roça, São Sebastião do Umbuzeiro, Sapé, Seridó, Ser ra Branca, Serra da Raiz, Serra Redonda, Serraria, Sertãozinho, Sobrado, Solânea, Soledade, Sossêgo, Sumé, Tacima, Taperoá, Tavares, Teixeira, Tenório, Umbuzeiro, Várzea, Vista Serrana, Zabelê; State of Piauí: all municipalities in the State of Piauí. State of Maranhão: Municipality of Timon III - indefinite duration. Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Northeast - Central Sicredi Nordeste, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi – System of Cooperative Credit, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participa ções S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Educational and Cultural Development Foundation of the Cooper Credit System active (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from the Sicredi Nordeste Center, on its own initiative or by the Center itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3 The disaffiliation of the Cooperative, on its own initiative, also depends on the agreement of: I - the majority of its members, to become independent; II - the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. § 4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5º The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - the systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Grow and Belong programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in the Regulations Internal to Sicredi (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in the event of a risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership of the Central matters, automatically, in solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of members of the Cooperative or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 8 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 10. The liability provided for in the previous paragraph may only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the party itself. Cooperative to which the beneficiaries of the resources and the respective Central are associated. § 11. The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and Sicredi's own standards, and may examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep it at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward it to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports arising from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions allocated to Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. To Central Sicredi NE as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as to the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives Sicredi members are granted powers of representation, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 The Cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - carrying out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including financing housing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, compensation of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and clubs investment, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. § 1 In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination. §2º The cooperative may, at its discretion, make available to non-members all financial and non-financial products and services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, including payment services in the modalities of acquirer and payment transaction initiator. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as making use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including those of a non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the membership and the community, observing internal regulations and current legislation. CHAPTER III MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 Persons who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established herein and are: I - individuals residing or carrying out activities in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; VII – individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities that reside or are established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi NE, excluding, for this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to the another Central. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay up the number of minimum shares provided for in §2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the active membership of Cooper nor will they be able to remain there, in addition of the hypotheses provided for in the legislation: I - one that, in its main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - that one that causes losses of any nature to the Cooperativa or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the membership conditions; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of sections IV and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional relationships are considered links. more, associative and kinship. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - to participate in core meetings and assemblies and, through delegates, in general assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, subject to the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when provided by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to statutory and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity detected in the management of the Company or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by associate; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved at a general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information about the demonstrations financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling obligations and other commitments assumed with or through the Cooperative; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at the events organized by it, political neutrality and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. A dismissal, elimination or exclusion of the member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, in accordance with the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which they are approved are approved by the general assembly. shutdown occurred. § 1 The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required to do so, except in the cases set out in §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of their participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or culpable, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must appear in its records, due to: I - Infringement of current legislation or the Statute, when not applicable to its exclusion; II - if the associate fail to punctually fulfill obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, or act in bad faith, may also be eliminated at the discretion of the Board of Directors. abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in their opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period of time or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member with an indication of the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the notification of elimination, in compliance with art. 51 dest and Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5 When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend him or remove him, as the case may be, preventively from the its functions, while the investigation continues, informing it of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days it can present its reasons for defence, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at your next meeting. § 6 In the case of §5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing these, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to decide on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 6 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of requirement entry or permanence in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Statutes will be decided by the Board of Directors, and the decision may be delegated to the Executive Board. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12. The share capital is unlimited as to the maximum and varies according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as to the minimum, the value of R$ 2,500,000, 00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 - Upon joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay, upon admission, a minimum of 20 (twenty) quota shares, equivalent to R$ 20.00 (twenty reais). § 3 The request for reinstatement of a member who has been fired, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors. Administration, may delegate to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including those linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe It is pay in new capital shares, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, monthly subscription and payment will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit into a deposit account. you. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Enrollment Form or in its respective electronic record, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always serve as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperativ a, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8 The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 9º Us In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deducting losses from the corresponding fiscal year, in compliance with the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, the start at same period, in up to 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and its framework in all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 9 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - the conditions are considered financial and patrimonial assets of the Cooperative, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and, cumulatively, has been part of Cooper's active membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, may , exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining its condition membership, with the minimum quota shares established in § 2 of this article. § 14. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit to the Board of Directors a request for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article . § 15. The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by members more flexible, including for purposes of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of member with a minimum of shares in the amount of R$ 10,000.00 (ten thousand reais), as long as the established asset limits are preserved by current legislation. § 16. The return referred to in §§ 13, 14 and 15, if approved by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, will be made at the discretion of the collegiate body, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with installments of payment by the Cooperative also being permitted. § 17. The redeemed amount may be released in a single payment, or, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, 50% (fifty percent) immediately and the remainder in up to 24 (twenty-four) successive monthly installments. § 18. In cases of dismissal from the associated, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 19. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he was removed from membership. In the event that there is a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperat iva may collect it through the means permitted by the national legal system. § 20. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 21. If the member does not promptly comply with the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be compensated, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital shares, maintaining your status as a member with the minimum number of shares established in § 2 of this article. § 22. Balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not sought by dismissed associates, eliminated or excluded will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of termination. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions on interest of Society, and the deliberations bind everyone, even if absent or discordant. § 1º The rendering of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of members of the administrative and supervisory boards, when they are matters on the agenda of the general assembly, must be previously assessed in core assemblies, which may be in person and/or remotely, through physical and/or electronic means. § 2 The other matters on the agenda of the general meeting may be deliberated directly in Assemblies of Delegates, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform members later. § 4 The coordination of the core assemblies will be the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or the Vice-President, or, if this is impossible, whoever the latter indicates. Art. 14. General assemblies will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the Coop erativa website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights , hypothesis in which At least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the mode of access to the means of communication made available for participation of members, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of issuance, for the purpose of installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible by the summons. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, provided that this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must comply with the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend private conclaves, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If you are elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, must simultaneously resign from the position of delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 1 6, the distribution of delegate vacancies among the groups will be carried out based on the specific regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 50 (fifty) groups, observing its own regulations; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 An effective delegate will be elected and by at least one alternate delegate, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately instituting a process of election for the choice of new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. General meetings will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite an administration advisor to act as secretary works. § 2 When the general assembly has not been convened by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and chaired by a delegate or other member chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Nucleus in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Nucleus will be represented by his deputy or another appointed associate, as applicable. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except regarding matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for whose validity the votes of 2 /3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the assembly and the secretary of work, as well as by a committee of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as they wish to do so. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum, both at the opening and at the restart(s) of the work, and the agenda contained in the notice, all duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not make it possible to comply with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Meeting Art. 24. The ordinary general meeting will be held obligatorily once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned on the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding financial year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of the components of the administration and fiscal councils; IV - fixing, on the occasion of the election and whenever changes are made, the value of fees, attendance cards and bonuses for Council members; V - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly. Single paragraph. Setting values provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to active Cooper. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It is your exclusive responsibility to decide on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by a Commission Electoral body constituted specifically for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Cooperative's Board of Directors, its autonomy and independence are ensured, reporting operationally to the same body. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegial deliberation body, composed of individual members, with 13 (thirteen) advisors, among them, one President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - not maintain, since the candidacy, employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the administrative, fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor is he related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not be, simultaneously, an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to be a competitor of any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they participate; IV - not have held or be holding a political position or function supporters, in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having taken advantage of 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or at another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) financial years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is controlling or administrator, due to pending issues relating to protest of securities, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or having a negative record in any databases; VIII - not have, through intent or fault, committed any irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; IX - have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (being an active member) and having participated in at least 2 (two) core assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated in the exercise immediately Anti, or participate in the courses and other programming and recycling events programmed by the system, according to the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to the attendance to all the other events directed to the counselors during the period of his mandate, until the period of 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for the integral to the statutory and legal incumbency, being prohibited the accumulation with another position the function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the operative; XII - preferably be exercising or have exercised, as holder or substitute, the role of Center Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a statutory position in the cooperative; XIII - have certification from the Crescer Program; XIV - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XV - Do not expose negatively, or to directly or indirectly attempt the image of any entities of Sicredi, its statutory meters or employees, due to the position, by any means, verbal or written, or any marks of ownership the entities that make up Sicredi; XVI - not having suffered a sanction for infraction of extremely serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVII - not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is the majority shareholder or administrator, the provision of services or the supply of products being considered habitual which, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 3 (three months. § 1 In the analysis of the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been dismissed or resigned to the position for which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, given that Those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. § 4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Collegiate itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among them, will designate successor(s), and the first meeting that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position(s). ), confirming or not the designated person(s), and the elected person(s) will serve the remaining time of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President succeeded ( s). Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President President, new components must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 4 (four) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, renunciation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible in accordance with the regulations in force, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under this Statute. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed. , under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, political party positions are understood to be: I - Elective post - those agents politicians invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. In general, they are elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer. or equivalent positions, according to the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, on an ordinary monthly basis, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, at the call of its President, a majority of its own Collegiate, or even at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the casting vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1º The convocation of Meetings of the Board of Directors will preferably be held in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that involve a conflict of interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner ( a) or employees. § 3 The meetings of the Council of Administration may be in-person, remotely, or in-person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29. In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and fulfillment of planning by it approved; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Director Executive management of the Cooperative in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, observing the provisions contained in the statute; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on the payment of annual remuneration on capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - deliberate on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate the complaints of offenses under the company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of the appropriate penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII – decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, participation of capital in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and respecting current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV- authorize the change of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, closure, transfer or change of address of other dependencies or branches of the Cooperative, inside or outside the host municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XVI - express an opinion on the management report and financial statements for the year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, observing systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing the share capital of the membership; XX - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. At In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each member, with registration in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in S icredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable rules, coordinating the action of the Board Executive; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, observing systemic guidelines; V - submit for consideration by the Board of Directors Administration the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, monitoring their execution; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, inside or outside of the membership, subject to the special powers of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by whoever they indicate; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board Administration, convening and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service of the social framework in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and which of the services provided to the members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors Administration. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his/her leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in which the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of 3 (three) Directors, one of whom is Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Administration Council within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and the appointees will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, removed by the Council administration. § 3 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 4 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 5 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and economic societies mixed; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and fifth) days that involves the lack of plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancy. Art. 33. To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and XIV to XVII, as well as § 2; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to each person knows in depth how the financial system works; V – meet the complementary systemic requirements when provided for in the regulations. Art. 34. The Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations, is responsible for: I - operationally administering the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and the guidelines and Sicredi’s corporate strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, enter into agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the company, in compliance with the provisions of these Bylaws; III - appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Mandate instruments must have minimum powers necessary to perform specific acts and for a determined period, except those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, observing the arranged in the this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, verifying routinely the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce technical audit notes and guidelines and internal controls, aimed at security and respect for legislation and Sicredi's internal regulations; XI - decide on the granting of any modal goods, contribution or assistance, regardless of benefits and value, according to the guidelines set by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities related to the Cooperative's ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 35. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - The Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative Administration and Fiscal Councils, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and guarantee the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for performance management and monitoring the Cooperative's results, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for assessment, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) respond for performance management and monitoring of the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; e) formally respond to responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in this Bylaws. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegial body, but may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical means and/or electronic, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within his competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 7, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the The Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 37. The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1. Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, by management reckless or serious omission of duties, causing harm to the Company, will be liable directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Management Councilors and Directors whose actions or omissions, in the form of the previous paragraph, have as consequence of any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised diligently and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) substitute, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing, regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XVII, of this Statute. § 1º A election of members of the Fiscal Council requires a complete slate(s), independent and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2 The member of the Supervisory Board must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is the majority shareholder or administrator, considering it habitual provision of services or supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 3 (three) months § 3 The mandate will be 3 ( three years. § 4 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. Art. 39. The Fiscal Council meets on a regular monthly basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3º Absent the coordinator and/or the secretary, substitutes will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 40 . In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to fill them accordingly, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2nd Application- whether to the Fiscal Council the vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 7, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed. , under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41. Enter other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the policy of loans and monitor their granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the norms on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, which may consult on internal and external auditors to provide information necessary to carry out their functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and those of the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic and corporate matters of interest to the group of individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Sicredi ; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, warning about any irregularities found and, in the absence of provision decisions on his part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the administration bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or break-up of the cooperative; X - convene a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which arises from their proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Council of Administration and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, of opportune complaint to the general assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized here, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of counselors and directors for the losses caused in accordance with paragraph previous. CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42. The fiscal year lasts 1 (one) year, ending on 31 from December. Art. 43. Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44. The surpluses determined at the end of each year (consolidated results) will be allocated as follows: I - 45% (forty-five percent), at least, to the Reserve Fund, intended to repair losses and to attend to the development of the Cooperative; II – 5% (five percent) at least, for the Technical, Educational and Social (FATES), intended to provide assistance to members, their families and Cooperative employees; III – recomposition of resources from the guarantee funds, in accordance with current legislation. IV - The remaining balance will be made available to the General Assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 2 of this article; § 1 The percentage of allocation to the Reserve Fund provided for in item I of this article will occur in a staggered manner, being: 30% (thirty percent) in the 2023 fiscal year, 35% (thirty-five percent) in the 2024 and 2025 fiscal years, 40% (forty percent) in the 2026, 2027 and 2028 fiscal years and 45% (forty-five percent ) from the year 2029. § 2º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the equity structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and Sicre di's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surplus , obeying system of apportionment provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares of the members' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 3 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including in as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 46. The Reserve Fund and the Technical Assistance Fund, Educational and Social are indivisible among members. CHAPTER are willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, by the subsequent general meeting, which can be held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48. The Company's liquidation will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER member of the System, in accordance with current legislation. CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51. Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52. The cooperative has extraordinary legitimacy as an autonomous competitor to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon manual authorization. if decided individually by the member or through a general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 53. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after hearing, when applicable, the social bodies. Art. 54 . The current members of the Board of Directors will have their mandates preserved until the inauguration of their successors, elected at the Ordinary General Assembly of 2025. Art. 55. The current positions of the Executive Board and their occupants will have their mandates preserved until the inauguration of their successors, elected at the first meeting of the Board of Directors that will take place after the 2025 AGM, when the position of Regional Director will be eliminated.