FoqueInformative focus of the Cooperativ a Sicredi Evolucion / June - July 2023 / No. 15 Pages 4 Sicredi Evoluç ãoo inaugurates the agency in Teresina See also edition: Cooperativa projects a result of R$ 70 millionPAGE. 03 Sicredi card is the favorite of BraziliansPAGE. 07Message from the President sicredi.c om.br/evolucao @sicredievoluc on 0800 083 2201João Bezerra Júnior Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Evolucion Sicredi Evolucion aware of environmental and social issues, uses FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper for printing this material. FSC Certification guarantees that a forest raw material comes from management considered socially, environmentally and economically appropriate and other controlled sources. It is with the purpose of building together a more prosperous society that we invite all associates to, united, continue to work together given in the development journey of our Sicredi Evolution. Our work has been strong because The development process is of great importance, promoting credit and financial inclusion in our area of ​​action, recommendations from the Central Bank of Brazil for credit cooperatives. In addition to these growths in the service network and in the volume of members, we are also projecting an increase in our results that will be made available to the Members' Assembly next year. Even though 2023 will still be of great difficulty for the financial market, the our commitment and dedication has made a difference, and the number we hope to reach is over R$70 million. We have already surpassed 50 thousand members, which makes us very proud of the strength of Sicredi Evolucion, always seeking quality in the provision of services. services and offering products and services. We will soon be reaching the level of R$3 billion in assets, which keeps us as the largest cooperative financial institution in the Northeast. Soon, we will open new branches in Picos, Floriano, Parnaíba and Bom Jesus, completing our cycle of expanding the service network in Piauí in 2023. Remembering that at the beginning of this year, we opened new service points in Paraíba in the cities of Itabaiana, Sumé and the neighborhood of Jaguaribe, in João Pessoa. We are in a long expansion process. We successfully opened our Jóquei Agency in Teresina, located on a highly trafficked avenue, one of the main ones in the capital of Piauí. DEVELOPMENT 2Sicredi Evolution BIMESTRAL NEWSLETTER Circulation: 3,000 copies Mark eting Manager / Editor: Elizomar Braga Filho (DRT-PB 5354 ) Communication Team: Delosmar Magalhães Emanoel Lucas Lorena Barbery Luiz Candoia Collaboration: Fábio Piquet Lourival Lopes Thales Cav alcanti Paulo Valério Nóbr egaO ano 2023 is already being celebrated with the expectation of an excellent result for Sicredi Evoluç ão.Sicredi Evoluç ão projects results of more than R$ 70 million in 2023 3 Another month of results positive for Sicredi Evolucion and the year 2023 is already proving to be quite satisfactory with the prospect of important growth for the largest cooperative institution in the Northeast. The distribution estimate is more than R$70 million in gross profit, the largest in the region. It is worth highlighting that from 2019 to 2022, the average gross result of Sicredi Evolucion was R$65 million. Even though 2023 will be a difficult year for the financial market, with a SELIC rate of 13.75%, the cooperative projects a gross result of more than R$70 million. Until the month of May this year, the total gross result already amounts to R$29.6 million (38% higher than the same period in the previous year). The monthly average is For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “the second semester is historically even better for the Cooperative and our projection calculations already indicate the accumulation of more than R$ 70 million that will be allocated to members as a raw result at next year's general meeting. The work is the result of the efforts of the teams, the strength of the directors, advisors and the unity of the associates” . “This year we have already opened three new branches in Paraíba and one more in Teresina. We are rapidly expanding our service network, currently with 34 branches, and an impressive number of 50 thousand members, which makes us very proud of our work in favor of credit cooperatives. This projection of results only comes to confirm that we are on the right path”, says João Bezerra Júnior. Sicredi Evolucion is worth R$ 5.9 million, which allows for an excellent projection for the current year. Board of Directors João Bezerra Júnior / President João Alfredo Falcão da Cunha Lima / Vice-president Effective: Agripino Joaquim de Melo e Silva Antônio de Aracoeli Lopes Ramalho Bernardino Bandeira Tercero Cláudio Or esses Britto Filho Fernando A. Florêncio dos Santos João Gonçal replaces Medeir as Filho José Irenaldo Jordão Quintans Marcel Martins Mar ques Sandra Maria Rodrigues Tavares Substitutes: Adelina Stela Vasconcelos B. Souto José Gomes Batista Ricardo Medeir as Barreto Effective: Ana Karla Almeida de M. Delgado Felipe Oliveira F erreira de Lima José Calixto da Silva Filho Substitute: Fátima Elizabeth F . de Oliveira NegriFiscal Council Members: Liege Maria Lira Souza Cavalcanti Romildo Coelho Montenegr o Vinicius José Gomes F ormiga Barros Substitute: Roberto Sérgio da Cunha AraújoCredit Recovery Committee Paulo Valério Nóbr ega F. de Melo Executive Director Lourival Lopes Operations Director Thales de Sousa Cavalcanti Business Director Ademir Costa Wanderley Regional DirectorEx Director executive Regional Superintendence Marcos Aurélio Ruﬁno S. Filholargest credit cooperative in the Northeast with R$ 2.7 billion in assets and is part of the national Sicredi system, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil, with 120 years of existence. The Cooperativ a is committed to the growth of its members and the development of the regions where it operates, with management that values ​​the participation of its members. The current year has been one of great challenges for financial institutions in Brazil and around the world, especially due to post-pandemic difficulties and the war in Ukraine. This, of course, also affects credit unions. “Our work has been very strong as market adversities require even greater attention. Our commitment to our associates is what motivates us to seek results, working to reduce administrative costs, formalize processes, train employees and, of course, expand our business by seeking new spaces. ”, emphasizes João Bezerra Júnior. R$ 21,356. 143.50 R$ 29,658,556.97 JAN TO MAY 2022 JAN TO MAY 202338%Message from Presidente sicredi.c om.br/evolucao @sicredievoluc on 0800 083 2201João Bezerra Júnior Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Evolucion Sicredi Evolucion, aware of environmental and social issues, uses FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper to print this material. FSC Certification guarantees that a forest raw material comes from management considered socially, environmentally and economically appropriate and other controlled sources. together to build a more prosperous society that we invite all associates to, united, continue hand in hand on the journey of development of our Sicredi Evolution. Our work has been strong as the development process is of great importance, promoting credit and financial inclusion in our area of ​​action, recommendations from the Central Bank of Brazil for credit cooperatives. In addition to these growths in the service network and volume of associates, we are also projecting an increase in our results that will be made available to the Associates Assembly next year. Even though 2023 is still very difficult for the financial market, our commitment and dedication have made a difference, and the number we hope to reach is over R$70 million. We have already surpassed 50 thousand members, which makes us very proud due to the strength of Sicredi Evolucion, always seeking quality in the provision of services and in offering products and services. We will soon be reaching the level of R$ 3 billion in assets, which keeps us as the largest cooperative financial institution in the Northeast. Soon, we will open new branches in Picos, Floriano, Parnaíba and Bom Jesus, completing our cycle of expanding service network in Piauí in 2023. Remembering that at the beginning of this year, we opened new service points in Paraíba in the cities of Itabaiana, Sumé and in the neighborhood of Jaguaribe, in João Pessoa. we are in a long expansion process. We successfully opened our Jóquei Agency in Teresina, located on a highly trafficked avenue, one of the main ones in the capital of Piauí. Development Paulo Valério Nóbr egaThe year 2023 is already being celebrated with the expectation of an excellent result for Sicredi Evoluç ão.Sicredi Evoluç ão projects results of more than R$70 million in 2023 3 Another month of positive results for the Sicredi Evolucion and the year 2023 is already proving to be quite satisfactory with the prospect of important growth for the largest cooperative institution in the Northeast. The distribution estimate is more than R$70 million in gross result, which largest in the region. It is worth highlighting that from 2019 to 2022, the average gross result of Sicredi Evolucion was R$65 million. Even though 2023 will be a difficult year for the financial market, with a SELIC rate of 13.75%, the cooperative projects a gross result of more than R$70 million. Until the month of May this year, the total gross result already amounts to R$29.6 million (38% higher than the same period in the previous year). The monthly average is For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “the second semester is historically even better for the Cooperative and our projection calculations already point to the accumulation of more than R$70 million that will be distributed to members as a gross result at next year’s general assembly. The work is the result of the efforts of the teams, the strength of the directors, advisors and the unity of the associates” . “This year we have already opened three new branches in Paraíba and one more in Teresina. We are expanding rapidly in our service network, currently with 34 branches, and an impressive number of 50 thousand members, which makes us very proud of our work in favor of credit cooperatives. This projection of results only confirms that we are on the right path”, says João Bezerra Júnior. Sicredi Evolucion is worth R$ 5.9 million, which allows for an excellent projection for the current year. Board of Directors João Bezerra Júnior / President João Alfredo Falcão da Cunha Lima / Vice- President Members: Agripino Joaquim de Melo e Sil va Antônio de Aracoeli Lopes Ramalho Bernardino Bandeira Tercero Cláudio Or este Britto Filho Fernando A. Florêncio dos Santos João Gonçal ves de Medeir os Filho José Irenaldo Jordão Quintans Marcel Martins Mar ques Sandra Maria Rodrigues Tavares Substitutes: Adelina Stela Vasconcelos B. Souto José Gomes Batista Ricardo Medeir the Barreto Effective: Ana Karla Almeida de M. Delgado Felipe Oliveira F erreira de Lima José Calixto da Silva Filho Substitute: Fátima Elizabeth F . de Oliveira NegriFiscal Council Members: Liege Maria Lira Souza Cavalcanti Romildo Coelho Montenegr o Vinicius José Gomes F ormiga Barros Substitute: Roberto Sérgio da Cunha AraújoCredit Recovery Committee Paulo Valério Nóbr ega F. de Melo Executive Director Lourival Lopes Operations Director Thales de Sousa Cavalcanti Business Director Ademir Costa Wanderley Regional DirectorExecutive Board Regional Superintendence Marcos Aurélio Rufino S. Filholargest credit cooperative in the Northeast with R$2.7 billion in assets and is part of the national Sicredi system, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil, with 120 years of existence. Cooperativ a is committed to the growth of its members and the development of the regions where it operates, with management that values ​​member participation. The year in vigor has been a major challenge for financial institutions in Brazil and around the world, especially due to post-pandemic difficulties and the war in Ukraine. This, of course, also affects credit unions. “Our work has been very strong as market adversities require even greater attention. Our commitment to our associates is what motivates us to seek results, working to reduce administrative costs, formalize processes, training employees and, of course, expanding business by seeking new spaces”, emphasizes João Bezerra Júnior. R$ 21,356. 143.50 R$ 29,658,556.97 JAN TO MAY 2022 JAN TO MAY 202338%Cooperative opens agency in TeresinaEXPANSION 5 4 Teresina now has a new Sicredi agency, located on Avenida Dom Severino, one of the city's main avenues. The new space represents a milestone for the financial and cooperative development of the region. The new branch has 2520m and stands out as a meeting point for members, offering a welcoming and modern space for doing business, exchanging knowledge and strengthening cooperative ties. Its innovative and functional design was carefully planned to provide a pleasant and efficient experience. For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “SIMcrédito is further proof of the vocation in disseminating Sicredi Evolucion promoted the first SIMcrédito - Credit Cooperative Seminar on June 3rd, at Sesc Cajuína, in Teresina. The event, which has been taking place in João Pessoa for 20 years, arrives in Piauí with the purpose of expanding the presence of cooperative education in the state. The event had Gustavo Krause at the opening. The speaker, who previously held the role of Minister of Finance and the Environment, presented to members the perspectives of the economic scenario in Brazil and the world. Amauri Jucá was also part of the program. The comedian from Piauí ended the meeting with lightness, good humor and curious stories from the local tradition.Sicredi Evolucion promotes the 1st SIMcrédito Piauí principles of cooperativism. Education, training and information are practices that govern our actions. In Paraíba we are already in the twentieth edition, but this inaugural one in Piauí is a milestone for our current stage of growth and maturity. ” “SIMcrédito is a great event. He puts our associates in an environment conducive to learning, exchanging experiences and contacts. Being cooperative is also like this. We at Sicredi Evolucion are proud to be able to hold this event now in Piauí and it will certainly be the first of many.”, adds João Bezerra Júnior. The SIMcrédito Piauí was organized by Sicredi Evolucion with the support of Icatu Coopera and OCB/Sescoop Paraíba and Piauí. in Teresina. The event also featured simultaneous transmission to members from other locations. Paulo Valério Nóbrega, executive director of the cooperative, states that “SIMcrédito is always an opportunity to bring great speakers to discuss important topics. We are all affected by changes in the economic scenario and having someone like Gustavo Krause to talk about this demonstrates our concern about offering the best for our members.” During the event, an iPhone, an iPad and a notebook were raffled off among the members present. EDUCATION Sicredi Evoluç ão arrives at Avenida Dom Severino in Teresina with an innovative space, committed to the future and with a commitment to serving its members well of the Cooperative. There are two floors, with a large mezzanine, individualized rooms for individuals, companies and agriculture, as well as exclusive environments for financial guidance, loans and investments with greater privacy. The structure also has a meeting room for employee training, exclusive tellers and self-service terminals. Icatu Coopera is also present in the new agency with an exclusive space for information on insurance and pensions. The agency also has a cafeteria and coworking space that operates free of charge for members to use for meetings and business meetings. The relevance of the Joquei Agency will In addition to being a physical space, it represents an opportunity to strengthen cooperation and promote inclusion. financial and contribute to the socioeconomic development of Teresina. It is a tangible symbol of Sicredi's commitment to being present and supporting the community on its path towards progress. The agency’s geographical proximity to the community is strategic, as it facilitates access to services and benefits. This contributes to strengthening local commerce, economic development in the region and promoting a more prosperous society. Cooperative opens agency in TeresinaEXPANSION 5 4 Teresina now has a new Sicredi agency, located on Avenida Dom Severino, one of the city's main avenues. The new space represents a milestone for the financial and cooperative development of the region. The new branch has 2520m and stands out as a meeting point for members, offering a welcoming and modern space for doing business, exchanging knowledge and strengthening cooperative ties. Its innovative and functional design was carefully planned to provide a pleasant and efficient experience. For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “SIMcrédito is further proof of the vocation in disseminating Sicredi Evolucion promoted the first SIMcrédito - Credit Cooperative Seminar on June 3rd, at Sesc Cajuína, in Teresina. The event, which has been taking place in João Pessoa for 20 years, arrives in Piauí with the purpose of expanding the presence of cooperative education in the state. The event had Gustavo Krause at the opening. The speaker, who previously held the role of Minister of Finance and the Environment, presented to members the perspectives of the economic scenario in Brazil and the world. Amauri Jucá was also part of the program. The comedian from Piauí ended the meeting with lightness, good humor and curious stories from the local tradition.Sicredi Evolucion promotes the 1st SIMcrédito Piauí principles of cooperativism. Education, training and information are practices that govern our actions. In Paraíba we are already in the twentieth edition, but this inaugural one in Piauí is a milestone for our current stage of growth and maturity. ” “SIMcrédito is a great event. He puts our associates in an environment conducive to learning, exchanging experiences and contacts. Being cooperative is also like this. We at Sicredi Evolucion are proud to be able to hold this event now in Piauí and it will certainly be the first of many.”, adds João Bezerra Júnior. The SIMcrédito Piauí was organized by Sicredi Evolucion with the support of Icatu Coopera and OCB/Sescoop Paraíba and Piauí. in Teresina. The event also featured simultaneous transmission to members from other locations. Paulo Valério Nóbrega, executive director of the cooperative, states that “SIMcrédito is always an opportunity to bring great speakers to discuss important topics. We are all affected by changes in the economic scenario and having someone like Gustavo Krause to talk about this demonstrates our concern about offering the best for our members.” During the event, an iPhone, an iPad and a notebook were raffled off among the members present. EDUCATION Sicredi Evoluç ão arrives at Avenida Dom Severino in Teresina with an innovative space, committed to the future and with a commitment to serving its members well of the Cooperative. There are two floors, with a large mezzanine, individualized rooms for individuals, companies and agriculture, as well as exclusive environments for financial guidance, loans and investments with greater privacy. The structure also has a meeting room for employee training, exclusive tellers and self-service terminals. Icatu Coopera is also present in the new agency with an exclusive space for information on insurance and pensions. The agency also has a cafeteria and coworking space that operates free of charge for members to use for meetings and business meetings. The relevance of the Joquei Agency will In addition to being a physical space, it represents an opportunity to strengthen cooperation and promote inclusion. financial and contribute to the socioeconomic development of Teresina. It is a tangible symbol of Sicredi's commitment to being present and supporting the community on its path towards progress. The agency’s geographical proximity to the community is strategic, as it facilitates access to services and benefits. This contributes to strengthening local commerce, economic development in the region and promoting a more prosperous society. National Credit Card Survey also revealed that the cooperative financial institution has the best card service in Brazil, with an index of 83.6% 7 The National Credit Card Survey (PNCC), carried out by CardMonitor in partnership with O Instituto Medida Certa, revealed that the Sicredi credit card is the favorite among Brazilians. In the study, 60.9% of users that Sicredi's credit card is preferred by Brazilians. Sicredi also ranked first in the credit card service ranking with 83.6% satisfaction, an advantage 8.7 percentage points compared to second place. have more than one card responded that they prefer the one issued by the financial institution cooperative. The National Credit Card Survey assesses satisfaction with the main attributes of a credit card such as customer service, credit limit, annual fee, loyalty program, Launch of the Sicredi Evoluç ãoCultural Committee ENGAGEMENT Sicredi Evolucion implemented the Cultural Committee of the cooperative on Plastic Artist's Day, May 8th. The launch took place at Agência Praia, in João Pessoa and brought together advisors and associates. The objective of Committee is to encourage the engagement of members in cultural issues, encouraging new productions, expanding access to culture and enabling the dissemination of work and activities linked to art and culture in its most different aspects. For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, the “Cultural Committee of Sicredi Evolucion is a collegiate body of a consultative and propositional nature, aimed at discussing aspects relating to conception, planning, ment, support, elaboration and monitoring and evaluation of new strategies to improve the cultural actions of our Cooperative”. The members of the Committee are: João Gonçalves de Medeiros Filho (coordinator), João Modesto Filho, Manoel Jaime Xavier, Márnio Costa and Gualter Lisboa Ramalho. It will bring together in its activities the areas of plastic arts, cinema, dance, photography, literature, music, poetry, theater, drawing and painting, in addition to other artistic expressions. approves implementation of core coordinators eoA.G.E. For Lourival Lopes, director of operations at Sicredi Evoluçao, "when we promoted the Extraordinary Digital General Assembly held on June 9, Sicredi Evolucion associates approved the implementation of the "Pertencer Program" and the installation of core coordinators. another important step to strengthen the Cooperative's operations and bring members even closer to management. Coordinators of The nucleus will be voluntary members who will play a fundamental role in representing the interests of members in their respective regions. They will be responsible for establishing a direct channel of communication between members and the Cooperative's administration, facilitating dialogue and contributing to decision-making that is more aligned with the needs of each location. The initiative reinforces the commitment to transparency, democratic participation and ethics and cooperative governance. active participation of members in our decision-making process, we are strengthening the essence of cooperativism and building a more solid and representative cooperative. Nucleus coordinators will be elected by members and will have the responsibility to represent their colleagues in a fair and impartial manner. They will be the spokespersons for local interests and demands, contributing to the identification of opportunities for improvement and to the development of solutions that benefit the entire community". The implementation of core coordinators will also provide greater proximity between Sicredi Evolucion and its associates, establishing a more personalized relationship. This will allow us to better understand the needs of each region , offer more appropriate financial solutions and develop social actions that promote local development. "We are excited about this new stage in our cooperative and we believe that the core coordinators will be agents of change and strengthening Sicredi Evolucion", adds Lourival Lopes. 6PRODUCTS The survey of the National Credit Card Survey is carried out through interviews, over the telephone, with more than 12 thousand card holders. The PNCC is equivalent to six electoral surveys by Ibope/Dataf olha, whose sample is normally two thousand interviewed. application, acceptance, among others. The study allows you to compare all players with the same methodology and period. Held annually, it is considered the largest project to measure cardholder satisfaction in Brazil. • Together, members elect their representatives, who are called nucleus coordinators. • Each coordinator has a representative vote and is responsible for taking the decisions of their core members to the General Assembly. Program Objectives The Pertencer Program is responsible for organizing the membership framework, as guided by the Cooperative Law (art. 42 of law no. 5,764/71). • Associates are gathered into nuclei (groups of associates). Debates and decisions on matters of collective interest to the cooperative take place within the nuclei. • Develops leaders, who are the Nucleus Coordinators, and who play a fundamental role, as leaders who mobilize participation, trust relationships and the leading role of the Cooperative. Benefits of the Program • Stimulates communication between members and cooperatives in the centers and through Coordinators; • Brings members and the Cooperative closer together, expanding spaces for debates, discussions, exchanges, through Core Meetings and Assemblies; • Provides greater participation of members in the management and development process of the Cooperative; National Credit Card Survey also revealed that the institution The financial cooperative has the best card service in Brazil asil, with an index of 83.6% 7 The National Credit Card Survey (PNCC), carried out by CardMonitor in partnership with the Instituto Medida Certa, revealed that the Sicredi credit card is the favorite among Brazilians. In the study, 60.9% of users that the Sicredi credit card is preferred by Brazilians. Sicredi also ranked first in the credit card service ranking with 83.6% satisfaction, an advantage of 8.7 percentage points in compared to second place. have more than one card responded that they prefer the one issued by the cooperative financial institution. The National Credit Card Survey assesses satisfaction with the main attributes of a credit card such as customer service, credit limit, annual fee, loyalty program, Launch of the Sicredi Evoluç ãoCultural Committee ENGAGEMENT Sicredi Evolucion implemented the Cultural Committee of the cooperative on Artist's Day Plastic, May 8. The launch took place at Agência Praia, in João Pessoa and brought together advisors and associates. The Committee's objective is to stimulate the engagement of members in cultural issues, promoting new productions, expanding access to culture and enabling the dissemination of work and activities linked to art and culture in its most different aspects. For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, the “Cultural Committee of Sicredi Evolucion is a collegiate body of a consultative and propositional nature, focused on discussing aspects relating to the conception, planning, support, elaboration and monitoring and evaluation of new strategies for improving the cultural actions of our Cooperative”. The members of the Committee are: João Gonçalves de Medeiros Filho (coordinator), João Modesto Filho, Manoel Jaime Xavier, Márnio Costa and Gualter Lisboa Ramalho. It will bring together in its activities the areas of plastic arts, cinema, dance, photography, literature, music, poetry, theater, drawing and painting, in addition to other artistic expressions. Assembly approves implementation of core coordinators eoA.G.E. For Lourival Lopes, director of operations at Sicredi Evoluçao, "when we promoted the Extraordinary Digital General Assembly held on June 9, Sicredi Evolucion associates approved the implementation of the "Pertencer Program" and the installation of core coordinators. more an important step to strengthen the Cooperative's operations and bring members even closer to management. The core coordinators will be voluntary members who will play a fundamental role in representing the interests of members in their respective regions. They will be responsible for establishing a direct channel of communication between members and the Cooperative administration, facilitating dialogue and contributing to more efficient decision-making. aligned with the needs of each location. The initiative reinforces the commitment to transparency, democratic participation and cooperative governance. active participation of members in our decision-making process, we are strengthening the essence of cooperativism and building a more solid and representative cooperative. Nucleus coordinators will be elected by members and will have the responsibility to represent their colleagues in a fair and impartial manner. They they will be the spokespersons for local interests and demands, contributing to the identification of opportunities for improvement and the development of solutions that benefit the entire community". The implementation of core coordinators will also provide greater proximity between Sicredi Evolucion and its associates, establishing a more personalized relationship. This will allow us to better understand the needs of each region, offering more comprehensive financial solutions. appropriate actions and develop social actions that promote local development. “We are excited about this new stage in our cooperative and we believe that the core coordinators will be agents of change and strengthening Sicredi Evolucion”, adds Lourival Lopes. 6PRODUCTS The National Credit Card Survey survey is carried out through telephone interviews with more than 12 thousand card holders. The PNCC is equivalent to six surveys electoral polls from Ibope/Dataf look, whose sample normally consists of two thousand interviewees. application, acceptance, among others. The study allows all players to be compared with the same methodology and period. Held annually, it is considered the largest project to measure cardholder satisfaction in Brazil. • Together, members elect their representatives, who are called nucleus coordinators. • Each coordinator has a representative vote and is responsible for taking the decisions of its core members to the General Assembly. Objectives of the Program The Pertencer Program is responsible for organizing the membership, in accordance with the guidelines of the Cooperative Law (art. 42 of law no. 5,764/71). • Associates are gathered into nuclei (groups of associates). Debates and decisions on matters of collective interest to the cooperative take place within the nuclei. • Develops leaders, who are the Core Coordinators, and who play a role fundamental, as leaders that mobilize participation, trust relationships and the Cooperative's protagonism. Benefits of the Program • Stimulates communication between members and the cooperative in the centers and through the Coordinators; • Brings members and the Cooperative closer together, expanding spaces for debates, discussions, exchanges, through Core Meetings and Assemblies; • Provides greater participation of members in the management and development process of the Cooperative;