Informative Focus of Cooperativ a Sicredi Evolucion / November - December 2023 / No. 16 See also in this edition: Sicredi Evolucion opens eight new branches in 2023. Page 4 Cooperative exceeds R$ 100 million in the AgroPÁG credit portfolio. 03 Sicredi Evoluç ão received the SomosCoop Award for Excellence in ManagementPAGE. 06Message from the President sicredi.c om.br/evolucao @sicredievoluc on 0800 083 2201João Bezerra Júnior Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Evolution Sicredi A conscious evolution of environmental and social issues, it uses FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper to print this material. FSC Certification guarantees that a forest raw material comes from management considered socially, environmentally and economically appropriate and from other controlled sources. The year 2023 was one of many achievements for Onossa Sicredi Evolucion. We opened three new branches in Paraíba and five new ones in Piauí, a clear demonstration of our strength and expansion. We promoted the twenty-first edition of SIMcrédito in Paraíba and expanded the project to Piauí with the first meeting in Teresina. We expanded the Financial Education Program “Cooperation at the tip of the pencil”, today with more than 4 thousand students impacted, training five hundred teachers in more than 30 public and private schools. We promote Cooperation Day with social achievements in all our agencies, transforming people's lives and contributing to a world better, with sustainable actions, care for the environment and propagation of the cooperative philosophy. We intensified the Crescer Program in all our branches with participatory meetings in the presence of our members who are increasingly closer to the Cooperative. This is how we make a difference, valuing our associates, sharing our achievements with employees and partners and building together a fairer society and a better world. And crowning all the work From Sicredi Evolucion, we received the Somoscoop Award for Excellence in Management, the result of our work together and which highlights our commitment to high standards of efficiency and governance, reflecting our dedication to providing quality financial services, transforming our communities through education and social responsibility. AGILIDADE RURAL CREDIT 2Sicredi Evolution BIMESTRAL INFORMATION Circulation: 3,000 copies Mark eting Manager / Editor: Elizomar Braga Filho (DRT-PB 5354 ) Communications Team: Emanoel Lucas Filipe Virgulino Lorena Barbery Luiz Candoia Collaboration: Fábio Piquet Lourival Lopes Thales Cav alcanti Paulo Valério Nóbr ega Sicredi Evoluç ão is installing recycler-type boxes in all branches, facilitating deposits without queues and with credit in the account at the same time. Caixa recycler receives deposits in check and cash without using an envelope Sicredi Evoluç ão already has more than R$ 100 million in account Agro 3 In addition, it is also possible to make withdrawals, consult statements, make payments and transfers. According to Thales Cavalcanti, business director at Sicredi Evolucion, "the cashier As far as security is concerned, the machine has a mechanism for refusing damaged or counterfeit notes. In this case, the ATM separates the note and returns it to the depositor The recycling ATM (ATMR) has innovative technology, present in Sicredi branches Evolution with special advantages: no need to use envelopes, the amount deposited instantly enters the account and has no extra cost for the member. For Lourival Lopes, operations director at Sicredi Evolucion, "the result is the result of teamwork and has been quite challenging as it is something new for Cooperativ a. Given this, the numbers achieved already demonstrate that we are on the right path and that there is still a journey of achievements with the opening of new fronts With just over two years operating in the Agro sector, Sicredi Evolucion closes 2023 with an agricultural credit portfolio of more than R$100 million. There are several lines available for rural producers, including funding, investments, Rural Product Certificate (CPR), marketing and industrialization, in addition to the Safra Plan. Board of Directors João Bezerra Júnior / President João Alfredo Falcão da Cunha Lima / Vice-President Effective: Agripino Joaquim de Melo e Silva Antônio de Aracoeli Lope Measure the Effective Barretos: Ana Karla Almeida de M. Delgado Felipe Oliveira F erreira de Lima José Calixto da Silva Filho Substitute: Fátima Elizabeth F . de Oliveira NegriFiscal Council Members: Liege Maria Lira Souza Cavalcanti Romildo Coelho Montenegr o Vinicius José Gomes F ormiga Barros Substitute: Roberto Sérgio da Cunha AraújoCredit Recovery Committee Paulo Valério Nóbr ega F. de Melo Executive Director Lourival Lopes Operations Director Thales de Sousa Cavalcanti Business DirectorExecutive Board Regional Superintendencies Ademir Costa Wanderley Marcos Aurélio Ruﬁno S. Filho· All members can use the ATM Reciclador, both the legacy and the digital account platform. With the exception of coins and R$2.00 notes, all other banknotes are accepted for deposit. It is also worth highlighting that the equipment also recycles the cells, feeding the cash cassettes with the money inserted into the deposits, which allows for greater recyclability and is an important new feature that makes life easier for members, speeding up service by avoiding queues and providing immediate credit to the account through the machine itself, without the use of traditional deposit envelopes." ), operational gain with cash flow time and online credit with deposits. Sicredi Evolucion still has little experience in rural areas, but the Sicredi system is nationally recognized as one of the organizations that most promote agriculture in the country, being the second financial institution in Brazil in terms of volume of resources lent in the sector. work and expansion of agribusiness in Paraíba and Piauí." "Sicredi was born from agribusiness, hence such potential and reference. Our work at Evolution is to maintain this strength and expand business opportunities for associates in our area of ​​activity, with increasingly competitive products and services", he emphasizes Lourival.Message from the President sicredi.c om.br/evolucao @sicredievoluc on 0800 083 2201João Bezerra Júnior Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Evolucion Sicredi Evolucion, conscious of environmental and social issues, uses FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper to printing of this material. FSC Certification guarantees that a forest raw material comes from management considered socially, environmentally and economically appropriate and from other controlled sources. The year 2023 was one of many achievements for Onossa Sicredi Evolucion. We opened three new branches in Paraíba and five new ones in Piauí, a clear demonstration of our strength and expansion. We promoted the twenty-first edition of SIMcrédito in Paraíba and expanded the project to Piauí with the first meeting in Teresina. We expanded the Financial Education Program “Cooperation at the tip of the pencil”, today with more than 4 thousand students impacted, training five hundred teachers in more than 30 public and private schools. We promote Cooperation Day with social achievements in all our agencies, transforming people's lives and contributing to a better world, with sustainable actions, care for the environment and propagation of the cooperative philosophy. We intensified the Crescer Program in all our agencies with participatory meetings with the presence of our members who are increasingly closer to the Cooperative. This is how we make a difference, valuing our associates, sharing our achievements with employees and partners and building together a fairer society and a better world. And crowning all the work of Sicredi Evolucion, we received the Somoscoop Award for Excellence in Management, the result of our work together and which highlights the commitment to high standards of efficiency and governance, reflecting our dedication to providing quality financial services, transforming our communities through of education and social responsibility. AGILIDADE RURAL CREDIT 2Sicredi Evolution BIMESTRAL INFORMATION Circulation: 3,000 examples Mark eting Manager / Editor: Elizomar Braga Filho (DRT-PB 5354 ) Communication Team: Emanoel Lucas Filipe Virgulino Lorena Barbery Luiz Candoia Collaboration: Fábio Piquet Lourival Lopes Thales Cav alcanti Paulo Valério Nóbr egaSicredi Evoluç ão is installing recycler-type boxes in all branches, facilitating deposits without queues and with credit to account at the same time. Caixa recycler receives deposits in check and cash without using an envelope. , make payments and transfers. According to Thales Cavalcanti, business director at Sicredi Evolucion, "the cashier With regard to security, the machine has a mechanism for refusing damaged or counterfeit notes. In this case, the ATM, separates the ballot and returns it to the depositor. The recycling ATM (ATMR) has an innovative technology, present in Sicredi Evolucion branches with special advantages: no need to use envelopes, the amount deposited instantly enters the account and has no extra cost for the member. For Lourival Lopes, operations director at Sicredi Evolucion, "the result is the result of teamwork and has been quite challenging as it is something new for the Cooperative. In view of this, the numbers achieved already demonstrate that we are on the right path and that there is still a journey of achievements with the opening of new fronts of With just over two years operating in the Agro sector, Sicredi Evolucion closes 2023 with an agricultural credit portfolio of more than R$100 million. There are several lines available for rural producers, including funding, investments, Rural Product Certificate (CPR), marketing and industrialization, in addition to the Plan Safra.Board of Directors João Bezerra Júnior / President João Alfredo Falcão da Cunha Lima / Vice-president Members: Agripino Joaquim de Melo and Sil va Antônio de Aracoeli Lopes Ramalho Bernardino Bandeira Tercero Cláudio Or esses Britto Filho Fernando A. Florêncio dos Santos João Gonçal ves de Medeir os Filhos José Irenaldo Jordão Quintans Marcel Martins Mar ques Sandra Maria Rodrigues Tavares Substitutes: Adelina Stela Vasconcelos B. Souto José Gomes Batista Ricardo Medeir os Barreto Effective: Ana Karla Almeida de M. Delgado Felipe Oliveira F erreira de Lima José Calixto da Silva Filho Substitute: Fátima Elizabeth F . de Oliveira NegriFiscal Council Members: Liege Maria Lira Souza Cavalcanti Romildo Coelho Montenegr o Vinicius José Gomes F ormiga Barros Substitute: Roberto Sérgio da Cunha AraújoCredit Recovery Committee Paulo Valério Nóbr ega F. de Melo Executive Director Lourival Lopes Director of Operations Thales de Sousa Cavalcanti Business DirectorExecutive Directorate Regional Superintendencies Ademir Costa Wanderley Marcos Aurélio Ruﬁno S. Filho · All members can use the ATM Reciclador, both the legacy and the digital account platform. With the exception of coins and R$2.00 notes, all other banknotes are accepted for deposit. It is also worth highlighting that the equipment also recycles cells, feeding Having the cash cassettes with the money inserted in the deposits, which allows for greater recycling, is an important new feature that makes life easier for members, speeding up service by avoiding queues and providing the opportunity for immediate credit to the account through the machine itself, without using the traditional deposit envelopes". autonomy and reduction in operational costs with deposit processing (conference time and authentications at the teller), operational gain with cashier time and online credit with deposits. Sicredi Evolucion has only been operating in rural areas for a short time, but the Sicredi system is nationally recognized as one of the organizations that most promote agriculture in the country, being the second financial institution in Brazil in terms of volume of resources lent in the sector. work and expansion of agribusiness in Paraíba and Piauí." "Sicredi was born from agribusiness, hence such potential and reference. Our job at Evolution is to maintain this strength and expand business opportunities for associates in our area of ​​activity, with increasingly competitive products and services", emphasizes Lourival.Agência Bom Jesus - PI Agência Itabaiana - PB Eight new agencies in 2023EXPANSION 5 4 With the opening of five new branches in Piauí and three in Paraíba in 2023, Sicredi Evolucion reinforces its commitment to local development, providing broader access to financial services and supporting entrepreneurship regional. Today, Cooperativ already has 32 service points in both states. “Our expansion is not only an indication of the financial health and trust placed in Sicredi Evolucion, but, mainly, the adoption of a growth strategy based on the potential of Sicredi Evoluç ãoo has marked notable growth, an expansion that reﬂects growing trust in the cooperative financial institution and its value proposition. In Paraíba, Sicredi Evolution already has 26 service points. With the expansion to Piauí, it was necessary to create new spaces. Paulo Valério Nóbrega, Piauí and Paraíba”, comments João Bezerra Júnior, president of the cooperative. “The new agencies were strategically located at points where we identified the need for more financial services, promising to boost the local economy and support small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as well as rural producers, who play a role crucial in the economy”, adds the president. The opening of these units is accompanied by a philosophy of proximity to members, one of the pillars of Sicredi Evolucion, which seeks to understand and meet the specific needs of each region in which it operates. “The physical presence, complemented by a robust digital service system, ensures members can manage their financial resources with comfort and security”, reinforces João Bezerra Júnior. Agência Jóquei - Teresina - PI Agência Jaguaribe - PB Agência Sumé - PB Agência Floriano - PI Agência Parnaíba - PI Agência Picos - PI executive director of the cooperative states that “Piauí has ​​been demonstrating an upward development curve with several sectors experiencing rapid growth, such as agribusiness, tourism and the technology and services sector. In this context, our cooperative positions itself as offering financial products and services aligned with local needs, inclusion and financial education”. The expected impact of the arrival of these new agencies is significant. The creation of direct and indirect jobs, the movement of the local economy with the construction and maintenance of spaces, and the stimulus to financial circulation are just some of the immediate advantages. In the long term, the presence of Sicredi Evolucion contributes to a more stable and confident economic environment, capable of attracting new investments and partnerships that can transcend even the territory of Piauí. “With an eye toward the future, Sicredi Evolucion continues to redefine the role of financial institutions in socioeconomic development. Our new branches effectively represent our lasting commitment to each member and to the community in our area of ​​operation”, concludes Paulo Valério. Bom Jesus Agency - PI Itabaiana Agency - PB Eight new agencies in 2023EXPANSION 5 4 With the opening of five new agencies in Piauí and three in Paraíba in 2023, Sicredi Evolucion reinforces its commitment to local development, providing broader access to financial services and supporting regional entrepreneurship. Today, Cooperativ already has 32 service points in both states. “Our expansion is not only an indication of the financial health and trust placed in Sicredi Evolucion, but, mainly, the adoption of a growth strategy based on the potential of A Sicredi Evoluç ãoo has marked remarkable growth, an expansion that reﬂects the growing conﬁdence in the cooperative ﬁnancial institution and its value proposition. In Paraíba, Sicredi Evolucion already has 26 service points. With the expansion to Piauí, it was necessary to create new spaces. Paulo Valério Nóbrega, Piauí and Paraíba”, comments João Bezerra Júnior, president of the cooperative. “The new branches were strategically located at points where we identified the need for more financial services, promising to boost the local economy and support small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as well as rural producers, who play a crucial role in the economy”, adds the president. The opening of these units is accompanied by a philosophy of proximity to members, one of the pillars of Sicredi Evolucion, which seeks to understand and meet the specific needs of each region in which it operates. “The physical presence, Complemented by a robust digital service system, it ensures members can manage their financial resources with convenience and security”, reinforces João Bezerra Júnior. Agência Jóquei - Teresina - PI Agência Jaguaribe - PB Agência Sumé - PB Agência Floriano - PI Agência Parnaíba - PI Agência Picos - PI executive director of the cooperative states that “Piauí has ​​been demonstrating an upward development curve with several sectors experiencing rapid growth, like the agribusiness, tourism and the technology and services sector. In this context, our cooperative positions itself as offering financial products and services aligned with local needs, inclusion and financial education”. The expected impact of the arrival of these new agencies is significant. The creation of direct and indirect jobs, the movement of the local economy with the construction and maintenance of spaces, and the stimulation of financial circulation are just some of the advantages immediate. In the long term, the presence of Sicredi Evolucion contributes to a more stable and confident economic environment, capable of attracting new investments and partnerships that can transcend even the territory of Piauí. “With an eye toward the future, Sicredi Evolucion continues to redefine the role of financial institutions in socioeconomic development. Our new branches effectively represent our lasting commitment to each member and to the community in our area of ​​operation”, concludes Paulo Valério. Investments in LCI expand the portfolio of options for Sicredi Evoluç ãoo members. 7 In addition to the opportunity in Agribusiness Credit Letters (LCA), Sicredi Evolucion has been innovating in the investment environment by also making Real Estate Credit Letters (LCI) available as one of the alternative financial investments for members. This modality is known for its safety, aligning profitability and solidity. Sicredi Evolucion's LCIs bring a series of advantages to those who are looking for an application that combines the tranquility of a low-risk investment Evolucion offers investments in L CINatal + Solidarity gathers donations for assistance institutions in Paríba and Piauí SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The campaign took place in all municipalities where Sicredi Evolucion has branches. With the support of associates and collaborators, the items collected were distributed to institutions in Paraíba in the cities of Bananeiras, Cabedelo, Campina Grande, Guarabira, Itabaiana, João Pessoa, Monteiro, Patos, Santa Rita, Sapé, Solânea and Sumé. In Piauí, the organizations A Sicredi Evolucion held another edition of Natal + Solidário, an action that is part of the Volunteer Movement that aims to spread the joy of Christmas. The initiative aimed to collect toys, clothes, food and other donations to benefit institutions social.Sicredi Evoluç ão wins SomosCoop Award for Excellence in Management RECOGNITION The Cooperative was the only one in the Northeast to be awarded in 2023 and the recognition highlights the commitment to high standards of efficiency and governance, reflecting its dedication to providing quality financial services to its associates. The Cooperative underwent a very careful assessment that assessed management based on the Management Excellence Model® (MEG) of National Foundation of 6PRODUT OS For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “the cooperative achieved this feat through a strategic approach, aligning internal processes with cooperative principles, promoting the active participation of members with best practices management. Education, transparency, operational efficiency and social responsibility were key elements that contributed to this important achievement ”.Quality (FNQ). By receiving this distinction, Sicredi Evolucion reaffirms its role as a reference in the cooperative sector, demonstrating solid management focused on collective benefit. The recognition validates Sicredi Evolucion's commitment to excellence and highlights the cooperative's ability to adapt and innovate in a dynamic financial scenario. By focusing on effective management methodologies, it strengthens its position in the market and solidifies ties with associates and the community. “The award is a recognition of joint work, of joining forces, which is why we share and express our gratitude to the associates, advisors, directors, André Pacelli, president of OCB-Paraíba, states that “the award is more than This recognition is a stimulus for cooperatives in Paraíba to continue on their journey of excellence in management, always in favor of sustainable development and the well-being of the community”. To be awarded, Sicredi Evolucion was recognized for its prominence in the Sescoop Cooperative Governance Index (ISGC), which reflects performance in the Cooperative criteria, General Assembly, Board of Directors/Board of Directors, Fiscal Council, Executive Management, Committees and Audits and Results; and also in the Sescoop Management Index (ISG), which evaluates performance in the criteria of Leadership, Strategies and Plans, Customers, Society, Information and Knowledge, People, Processes and Results.collaborators and partners, whose engagement and trust are fundamental elements for our collective success”, adds Bezerra.Sicredi Evolucion celebrates another significant milestone in its trajectory, by being awarded the prestigious Somosc oop de Excellence in Management, promoted by the Brazilian Cooperative Organization (OCB). assisted were in the cities of Bom Jesus, Floriano, Parnaíba, Picos and Teresina. In total, there were 17 institutions benefited. The campaign sought much more than providing donations, but also strengthening community ties and encouraging a culture of volunteering. “We believe that solidarity is one of the fundamental values ​​that unites people for the common good. By involving the entire For Paulo Valério, executive director of the cooperative, “it is time for us to thank everyone who contributed to making Natal + Solidário a success, demonstrating that, together, we can make a difference and bring the light of Christmas to those who need it most.” With these characteristics, LCI presents itself as a particularly interesting alternative in the portfolio of investors seeking to diversify their investments without giving up security. “The modality can be indicated for the conservative profile of a portion of income tax exemption for individuals, a tax benefit that enhances the net return of the investment. According to Ana Paula Marquito, manager of business development and investments of Sicredi Evolucion, “this type of investment is backed by real estate credits, which means that the money invested is used to finance the real estate sector, a fundamental pillar for economic and social development ”. In addition to the individual benefits for investors, LCIs are linked to the values ​​of the cooperative economy. The resources invested in Real Estate Credit Letters are important for finance the construction or acquisition of properties, thus helping to boost the construction industry and contributing to the generation of jobs and economic growth. Thus, when choosing LCI, members not only invest to increase their assets, but also actively participate in the economic development of their region.associates, while meeting the expectations of those seeking tax efficiency. Furthermore, it comes with a guarantee of FGCoop of up to R$ 250 thousand per CPF", reinforces Ana Paula. In the ecosystem of our cooperative, we reinforce the vocation of seeking social development through cooperativism, intensifying our seventh principle, which is interest in the community", reinforces Paulo Valério Nóbrega.Investments in LCI expand the portfolio of options for Sicredi Evoluç ãoo members. 7 In addition to the opportunity in Agribusiness Letters of Credit (LCA), Sicredi Evolucion has been innovating in the investments by also making Real Estate Credit Letters (LCI) available as one of the alternative financial investments for members. This modality is known for its safety, aligning profitability and solidity. Sicredi Evolucion's LCIs bring a series of advantages to those who are looking for an application that combines the tranquility of a low-risk investment Evolucion offers investments in L CINatal + Solidarity gathers donations for institutions assistance in Paríba and Piauí SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The campaign took place in all municipalities in which Sicredi Evolucion has branches. With the support of associates and collaborators, the items collected were distributed to institutions in Paraíba in the cities of Bananeiras, Cabedelo, Campina Grande, Guarabira, Itabaiana, João Pessoa, Monteiro, Patos, Santa Rita, Sapé, Solânea and Sumé. In Piauí, the organizations A Sicredi Evolucion held another edition of Christmas + Solidarity, an action that is part of the Volunteer Movement that aims to spread the joy of Christmas. The initiative aimed to collect toys, clothes, food and other donations to benefit social institutions. Sicredi Evoluç ão wins SomosCoop Award for Excellence in Management RECOGNITION The Cooperative was the only one in the Northeast to be awarded in 2023 and the recognition highlights the commitment with high standards of efficiency and governance, reflecting its dedication to providing quality financial services to its members. The Cooperative underwent a very careful assessment that assessed management based on the Management Excellence Model® (MEG) of the National Foundation of 6PRODUT OS For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “the cooperative achieved this feat through a strategic approach, aligning internal processes with cooperative principles, promoting the active participation of associated with best management practices. Education, transparency, operational efficiency and social responsibility were key elements that contributed to this important achievement ”.Quality (FNQ). By receiving this distinction, Sicredi Evolucion reaffirms its role as a reference in the cooperative sector, demonstrating solid management focused on collective benefit. The recognition validates Sicredi Evolucion's commitment to excellence and highlights the the cooperative's ability to adapt and innovate in a dynamic financial scenario. By focusing on effective management methodologies, it strengthens its position in the market and solidifies ties with associates and the community. “The award is a recognition of joint work, of joining forces, which is why we share and express our gratitude to the associates, advisors, directors, André Pacelli, president of OCB-Paraíba, states that “the award is more than This recognition is a stimulus for cooperatives in Paraíba to continue on their journey of excellence in management, always in favor of sustainable development and the well-being of the community”. To be awarded, Sicredi Evolucion was recognized for being highlighted in the Sescoop Cooperative Governance Index (ISGC), which reflects performance in the Cooperative criteria, General Assembly, Board of Directors/Board, Fiscal Council, Executive Management, Committees and Audits and Results; and also in the Sescoop Management Index (ISG), which evaluates performance in the criteria of Leadership, Strategies and Plans, Customers, Society, Information and Knowledge, People, Processes and Results. collaborators and partners, whose engagement and trust are fundamental pieces for the our collective success”, adds Bezerra. Sicredi Evolucion celebrates another significant milestone in its trajectory, by being awarded the prestigious Somosc oop Award of Excellence in Management, promoted by the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB). assisted were in the cities of Bom Jesus, Floriano, Parnaíba, Picos and Teresina. In total, 17 institutions benefited. The campaign sought much more than providing donations, but also strengthening community ties and encouraging a culture of volunteering. “We believe that solidarity is one of the fundamental values ​​that unites people for the common good. By involving the entire For Paulo Valério, executive director of the cooperative, “it is time for us to thank everyone who contributed to making Natal + Solidário a success, demonstrating that, together, we can make a difference and bring the light of Christmas to those who need it most”. With these characteristics, LCI presents itself as a particularly interesting alternative in the portfolio of investors seeking to diversify their investments without giving up security. “The modality can be indicated to the profile conservative portion of income tax exemption for individuals, a tax benefit that enhances the net return on the investment. According to Ana Paula Marquito, business development and investment manager at Sicredi Evolucion, “this type of investment is backed by real estate credits, which means that the money invested is used to finance the real estate sector, a fundamental pillar for economic development and Social". In addition to the individual benefits for investors, LCIs are linked to the values ​​of the cooperative economy. The resources invested in Real Estate Credit Letters are important for financing the construction or acquisition of properties, thus helping to boost the construction industry and contributing to the generation of jobs and economic growth. Thus, the member, when choosing LCI, not only invests in increasing their assets, but also it also actively participates in the economic development of its region.associates, while meeting the expectations of those seeking tax efficiency. In addition, it has a FGCoop guarantee of up to R$ 250 thousand per CPF", reinforces Ana Paula. In the ecosystem of our cooperative, we reinforce the vocation of seeking social development through cooperativism, intensifying our seventh principle, which is interest for the community”, reinforces Paulo Valério Nóbrega. Make deposits of checks and cash without envelope in our ATMs. Credit to account instantly