40EnfoqueInformativo da Cooperativ a Sicredi Evolucion / September - October 2022 / No. 13 Sicredi Evoluç ãoo reaches the mark of 40 thousand members and R$ 2.5 billion in assets Cooperative records historical index with the expansion of the number of members and with an increase in the volume of total assets, demonstrating the strength of credit cooperatives in Paraíba. Pages 4 and 5 Have you ever thought about investing in LCA?PAGE. 03 Book tells the story of Sicredi in ParíbaPÁG. 06Message from the President sicredi.c om.br/evolucao @sicredievoluc aoJoão Bezerra Júnior Chairman of the Board of Directors Sicredi Evolucion Sicredi Evolucion, aware of environmental and social issues, uses FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper to print this material. FSC Certification guarantees that a forest raw material comes from management considered socially, environmentally and economically appropriate and other controlled sources. It is certain that with these rates the our responsibility. Therefore, we remain engaged with the future, with many projects to maintain our achievements, always seeking new opportunities for our development. One of these projects is our entry into Piauí, strengthening credit cooperatives in that location. We are in the planning phase and will soon communicate the steps for member participation in this process of joint growth. with total pride we communicate the reach of Énumber of 40 thousand members in our Sicredi Evolution. This historic milestone is a reflection of teamwork, involving many hands, bringing together everyone's strength and care for management. We would like to thank our associates, advisors, managers, collaborators and partners for this achievement. We thank the 23 founders who in 1990 took the first steps on our journey. To them, our recognition and reverence. In an atmosphere of great joy, in a year that continues to be difficult for the economy, we have reasons to celebrate and share each of our achievements. Let's go together! We count on everyone's support: in educational events, in social actions, in assembly meetings, in agencies and other participation channels. Remember, member participation is essential to our success. As we reach 40 thousand members, we also celebrate reaching an asset volume of around R$2.5 billion. It is this number that puts us in the highest place in cooperativism credit in the Northeast region. We also celebrated for the third month in a row, the satisfaction rate with our service was around 80%. It is called the Net Promoter Score (NPS), a methodology adopted by Sicredi to monitor the quality of service provision to members.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 2Sicredi Evolution BIMESTRAL INFORMATION Circulation: 3,000 copies Communication and Mark eting Manager / Editor: Elizomar Braga Filho (DRT-PB 5354 ) Collaboration: Fábio Piquet Igor Urtiga Lorena Barbery Lourival Lopes Luiz Candoia Thales Cav alcanti Paulo Valério Nóbr egaBOARD OF DIRECTORS (2021-202 4) JOÃO BEZERRA JÚNIOR - President JOÃO ALFREDO F . CUNHA LIMA - Vice - President Advise the Staff: AGRIPINO JOAQUIM DE MEL O AND SILVA ANTÔNIO DE ARACOELI LOPES RAMALHO BERNARDINO BANDEIRA THIRD CLÁUDIO ORESTES BRITT THE SON FERNANDO A. FLORÊNCIO DOS SANT OS JOÃO GONÇAL VES DE MEDEIROS FILHO JOSÉ IRENALDO JORDÃO QUINT ANS MARCEL MARTINS MARQUES SANDRA MARIA RODRIGUES TAVARES Substitutes: ADELINA STELA VASCONCELOS B. SOUT O JOSÉ GOMES BA TISTA RICARDO MEDEIROS BARRET THE FISCAL COUNCIL (2021-2022 ) Effective Members: ADIL CARLOS PIMENTEL ANA KARLA A. DE M DEL GADO FÁTIMA ELIZABETH F . DE O. NE GRI Members Substitutes: JOSÉ CALIXT O DA SILVA FILHO LÚCIA DE FÁTIMA DE P. GADELHA PEDRO FERREIRA DE SOUSA FILHO CREDIT RECOVERY COMMITTEE (2021-202 4) Effective Members: ROBERTO SÉRGIO ROMILDO C OELHO MO TENEGRO VINÍCIUS F ORMIGA Substitutes: FELIPE OLIVEIRA JOÃO ALBERTO LINS FILHO LIEGE LIRA CAVALCANTE EXECUTIVE BOARD (2021-202 4) PAULO VALÉRIO N. F . OF HONEY - Executive Director LOURIVAL LOPES - Operations Director FELIPE GURGEL DE ARAÚJO - Business Director ADEMIR C OSTA WANDERLEY - Regional Director The time has come to acquire a new or used property with the ease of being a shareholder in the FGTS - Time Guarantee Fund Service. Credit is fast and the first installment can be paid within 30 days. According to Lourival Lopes, administrative director of Sicredi Evolucion, "the cooperative can finance up to 90% of the value of the property (SAC table) and 80% (PRICE table), with a period of up to 30 years to pay. The line is valid for residential properties with a maximum value of up to R$ 1.5 million. "How about using the resources from the Special Housing Credit Program for FGTS Shareholders to purchase property? Credit line with resources from the FGTS facilitates the acquisition of properties - Minimum of 3 years under the FGTS regime construction in the same municipality where you work or live, Housing Finance (SFH).Requirements: - Have an active formal contract - Not be the owner of a residential property, completed or in neighboring municipalities and metropolitan regions. - Not have active financing within the scope of the System - Property to be acquired located where you work or live, including neighboring municipalities and metropolitan regions. Have you ever thought about investing in LCA? Sicredi Evolucion offers very profitable investment options in fixed income. An option that has Gaining space and demand in agencies is the Agribusiness Letter of Credit (LCA). As the name suggests, it is a title issued to provide credit to farmers. The LCA is based on the CDI to calculate the profitability of the product, which varies according to the stipulated period and the amount invested. Tax-free for Individuals, this is a very low-risk option and brings diversification that can boost your possibility of return. Furthermore, this option The investment is covered by the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop), which guarantees investments of up to R$250,000 per CPF/CNPJ. According to Felipe Gurgel, Business Director, "Sicredi Evolucion today already has a portfolio of more than R$60 million in LCA, which demonstrates the strong demand and security of this type of investment." To find out more about the product, talk to your manager.Diversification with low risk For those looking for variety in time to invest, but don't give up on low-risk applications. Tax-free Individuals are exempt from IOF and Income Tax, increasing the profitability of the application. Support for agribusiness When you invest in LCA, you help local agribusiness and, consequently, the development of the community. 3Initial application value: from R$ 1,000.00Message from the President sicredi.c om.br/evolucao @sicredievoluc aoJoão Bezerra Júnior President of the Board of Directors Sicredi Evolution Sicredi Evolution, aware of environmental and social issues, uses FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper to print this material. FSC Certification guarantees that a forest raw material comes from management considered socially, environmentally and economically appropriate and other controlled sources. It is certain that with these rates our responsibility becomes even greater. Therefore, we remain engaged with the future, with many projects to maintain achievements, always seeking new opportunities for our development. One of these projects is our entry into Piauí, strengthening credit cooperatives in that location. We are in the planning phase and will soon communicate the steps for member participation in this process of joint growth. With total pride we communicate the reach of Énumber of 40 thousand members in our Sicredi Evolution. This historic milestone is a reflection of teamwork, of many hands, bringing together everyone's strength and care for management. We would like to thank our associates, advisors, managers, collaborators and partners for this achievement. We thank the 23 founders who in 1990 took the first steps on our journey. To them, our recognition and reverence. In an atmosphere of great joy, in a year that continues to be difficult for the economy, we have reasons to celebrate and share each of our achievements. Let's go together! We have the support of all: in educational events, in social actions, in assembly meetings, in agencies and other participation channels. Remember, member participation is essential to our success. As we reach 40 thousand members, we also celebrate reaching an asset volume of around R$2.5 billion. It is this number that places us in the highest position in credit unions in the Northeast region. We also celebrated for the third month in a row, the satisfaction index to our service of around 80%. It is called the Net Promoter Score (NPS), a methodology adopted by Sicredi to monitor the quality of service provision to members.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 2Sicredi Evolution BIMESTRAL INFORMATION Circulation: 3,000 copies Communication and Mark eting Manager / Editor: Elizomar Braga Filho (DRT-PB 5354 ) Collaboration: Fábio Piquet Igor Urtiga Lorena Barbery Lourival Lopes Luiz Candoia Thales Cav alcanti Paulo Valério Nóbr egaBOARD OF DIRECTORS (2021-202 4) JOÃO BEZERRA JÚNIOR - PRESIDENT JOÃO ALFREDO F . CUNHA LIMA - Vice - President Advise the Staff: AGRIPINO JOAQUIM DE MEL O AND SILVA ANTÔNIO DE ARACOELI LOPES RAMALHO BERNARDINO BANDEIRA THIRD CLÁUDIO ORESTES BRITT O FILHO FERNANDO A. FLORÊNCIO DOS SANT OS JOÃO GONÇAL VES DE MEDEIROS FILHO JOSÉ IRENALDO JORDÃO QUINT ANS MAR CEL MARTINS MARQUES SANDRA MARIA RODRIGUES TAVARES Substitutes: ADELINA STELA VASCONCELOS B. SOUT O JOSÉ GOMES BA TISTA RICARDO MEDEIROS BARRET THE FISCAL COUNCIL (2021-2022 ) Effective Members: ADIL CARLOS PIMENTEL ANA KARLA A. DE M. DEL GADO FÁTIMA ELIZABETH F . DE O. NE GRI Substitute Members: JOSÉ CALIXT O DA SILVA FILHO LÚCIA DE FÁTIMA DE P. GADELHA PEDRO FERREIRA DE SOUSA FILHO CREDIT RECOVERY COMMITTEE (2021-202 4) Effective Members: ROBERTO SÉRGIO ROMILDO C OELHO MO TENEGRO VINÍCIUS F ORMIGA Alternate Members: FELIPE OLIVEIRA JOÃO ALBERTO LINS FILHO LIEGE LIRA CAVALCANTE EXECUTIVE BOARD (2021-202 4) PAULO VALERIO N.F. DE MEL O - Executive Director LOURIVAL LOPES - Operations Director FELIPE GURGEL DE ARAÚJO - Business Director ADEMIR C OSTA WANDERLEY - Regional Director The time has come to acquire a new or used property with the ease of being a member of the FGTS - Service Time Guarantee Fund. Credit is fast and the first installment can be paid within 30 days. According to Lourival Lopes, administrative director of Sicredi Evolucion, "the cooperative can finance up to 90% of the value of the property (SAC table) and 80% (PRICE table), with a payment period of up to 30 years. The line is valid for residential properties in a maximum value of up to R$ 1.5 million ". How about using the resources of the Special Housing Credit Program for FGTS Shareholders to purchase a property? Line of credit with FGTS resources facilitates the acquisition of property - Minimum of 3 years under the FGTS construction regime in the same municipality where you work or reside, Housing Finance (SFH). Requirements: - Have an active formal contract - Not be the owner of a residential property, completed or in neighboring municipalities and metropolitan regions. - Not have active financing within the scope of the System - Property to be acquired located where you work or live, including neighboring municipalities and metropolitan regions. Have you ever thought about investing in LCA? Sicredi Evolucion offers very profitable investment options in fixed income. An option that has gained space and demand in agencies is the Agribusiness Letter of Credit (LCA). As the name suggests, it is a title issued to provide credit to farmers. The LCA is based on the CDI to calculate the profitability of the product, which varies according to the stipulated period and the amount invested. Tax-free for Individuals, this is a very low-risk option and brings diversification that can boost your possibility of return. Furthermore, this investment option is covered by the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (FGCoop), which guarantees investments in up to R$250 thousand per CPF/CNPJ. According to Felipe Gurgel, Business Director, "Sicredi Evolucion today already has a portfolio of more than R$60 million in LCA, which demonstrates the strong demand and security of this type of investment." To find out more about the product, talk to your manager.Diversification with low risk For those looking for variety when investing, but do not give up on low-risk applications. Tax-free Individuals are exempt from IOF and Income Tax, increasing the profitability of the application. Support for agribusiness When you invest in LCA, you help local agribusiness and, consequently, the development of the community. 3Initial value of the application: from R$ 1,000.00Sicredi Evoluç ãoo reaches the mark of 40 thousand members in ParíbaCONQUIST A 5 4 From the dream of 23 cooperative members, the success story of Sicredi Evolucion in Paraíba was born. Today, the Cooperative celebrates the milestone of 40 thousand members and the volume of R$ 2.5 billions of assets, numbers that place it as the largest cooperative financial institution in the Northeast. For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “the cooperative has worked to value its members, with employee qualifications and a constant search for excellence in the quality of service. This has had an impact on the process of agency expansion and business growth, culminating in such significant numbers, which brings us very proud to share all these important achievements”. Sicredi Evolucion is present in 173 municipalities in Paraíba, with 24 service points for members. The cooperative has a service satisfaction rate of over 80% and carries out important financial education and social promotion work in the State. The interest rates are fair and, at the end of each year, it distributes its results with its associates, an important differentiator for those who have mission to add income to the membership and develop the region. The following can join the cooperative: students, professionals from the most diverse areas and self-employed people. Everyone has Sicredi's more than 300 financial solutions, as well as the right to vote and participate in meetings. The cooperative is part of the Sicredi System, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil, now 120 years old, with 2 thousand service points and more than 6 million members throughout the country. country. Profile of members - The majority of Sicredi Evolucion's members are natural persons, corresponding to 80% of the membership. It is worth emphasizing that today, more than 7 thousand companies of different sizes have accounts with the cooperative. Currently, there are already more than 2 thousand accounts on the Sicredi digital platform, which is a great novelty streamlining the association. The cooperative reaches the historic milestone of 40 thousand members and R$ 2.5 billion in Total assets, a clear sign of the state expansion process in the state. And growth in 1990 cooperativism 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 202223634 1,2273.0076.91110.50330.10540.R. February 1993, presents the nominal list of those who wrote the first chapters in the history of credit cooperativism in the Constituted General Assembly of the Constitution, on December 19 in 1990, and approved by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN), on April 26, 1993, Sicr edi Evolucion has its history guided by decisive moments over the years, with the participation of members. Capital of Paraíba and also in throughout the State: Aldrovando Grisi, Alberto Luiz Duarte Marinho, Antônio Moacir Dantas Cavalcante (in memoriam). Aucélio Melo de Gusmão, Carlos Alberto do Rêgo Luna, Edmilson Cunha Melo (in memoriam), Guido Moreira Gadelha, José Eymard Moraes de Medeiros (in memoriam), José Gomes Batista, José Marinetti Bezerra, José Zuca Moreira Lustosa, Lauro dos Guimarães Wanderley Filho, Marco Aurélio Smith Filgueiras, Pedro Ferreira de Sousa Filho, Pedro Flávio Maroja Ribeiro, Reginaldo Tavares de Albuquer que Ricardo Antônio Rosado Maia, Romildo Coelho Montenegro, Rosandro Aranha Montenegro (in memoriam), Sebastião Travassos Nogueira (in memoriam), Teotônio Santa Cruz Montenegro, Ugo Lemos Guimarães (in memoriam) and Wilson Ribeiro de Moraes Filho The seed planted by the 23 audacious cooperative members resulted in a successful harvest over time and the achievement of new achievements. Truly, a great achievement for all associates: the creation and development of the largest cooperative financial institution in the Northeast, Sicredi Evolucion. The beginning of a success story 611 associates493 associates1,780 associates3,904 associates3,592 associates19,602 members9,895 membersSicredi Evoluç ão reaches the mark of 40 thousand members in ParíbaCONQUIST A 5 4 From the dream of 23 cooperative members, the success story of Sicredi Evolucion in Paraíba was born. Today, the Cooperative celebrates the milestone of 40 thousand members and a volume of R$2.5 billion in assets, numbers that place it as the largest cooperative financial institution in the Northeast. For João Bezerra Júnior, president of Sicredi Evolucion, “the cooperative has done work to value its members, with qualification of employees and constant search for excellence in the quality of service. This has had an impact on the process of agency expansion and business growth, culminating in such significant numbers, which makes us very proud to share all these important achievements” . Sicredi Evolucion is present in 173 municipalities in Paraíba, with 24 service points for members. The cooperative has a satisfaction rate with service greater than 80% and carries out important financial education and social promotion work in the State. The interest rates are fair and, at the end of each year, it distributes its results with its members, an important difference for those whose mission is to add income to the membership and develop the region. The following can join the cooperative: students, professionals from the most diverse areas and self-employed people. They all have more than 300 Sicredi financial solutions, in addition to right to vote and participate in assemblies. The cooperative is part of the Sicredi System, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil, now 120 years old, with 2 thousand service points and more than 6 million members across the country. Profile of members - The majority of Sicredi Evolucion's members are natural persons, corresponding to 80% of the membership. It is worth emphasizing that today, more than 7 thousand companies of different sizes have accounts with cooperative. Currently, there are already more than 2 thousand accounts on the Sicredi digital platform, which is a great novelty streamlining the association. The cooperative reaches the historic milestone of 40 thousand members and R$ 2.5 billion in total assets, a clear sign of the credit expansion process in the State. 50330.10540.000 MEMBERS The list of founding members, based on The Cooperative's document, dated February 26, 1993, presents the nominal list of those who wrote the first chapters of the history of credit cooperativism in the Constituted General Assembly of the Constitution, on December 19, 1990, and approved by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN), on April 26, 1993, Sicr edi Evolucion has its history guided by decisive moments over the years, with the participation of members. Capital of Paraíba and also in throughout the State: Aldrovando Grisi, Alberto Luiz Duarte Marinho, Antônio Moacir Dantas Cavalcante (in memoriam). Aucélio Melo de Gusmão, Carlos Alberto do Rêgo Luna, Edmilson Cunha Melo (in memoriam), Guido Moreira Gadelha, José Eymard Moraes de Medeiros (in memoriam), José Gomes Batista, José Marinetti Bezerra, José Zuca Moreira Lustosa, Lauro dos Guimarães Wan - derley Filho, Marco Aurélio Smith Filgueiras, Pedro Ferreira de Sousa Filho, Pedro Flávio Maroja Ribeiro, Reginaldo Tavares de Albuquer that Ricardo Antônio Rosado Maia, Romildo Coelho Montenegro, Rosandro Aranha Montenegro (in memoriam), Sebastião Travassos Nogueira (in memoriam), Teotônio Santa Cruz Montenegro, Ugo Lemos Guimarães (in memoriam) and Wilson Ribeiro de Moraes Filho The seed planted by the 23 audacious cooperative members resulted in a successful harvest over time and the achievement of new achievements. Truly, a great achievement for all associates: the creation and development of the largest cooperative financial institution in the Northeast, Sicredi Evolucion. The beginning of a success story 611 members493 members1,780 members3,904 members3,592 members19,602 members9,895 membersCooperative participates in the 52nd Feira do Lar da Providência SOCIALACTION Book tells the story of Sicredi in Paríba LAUNCH 7 6Sicredi in Paríba. Literary work brings a historical rescue about History is not lost with time, it is perpetuated with the pass the days. The trajectory of Sicredi cooperatives in Paraíba is the highlight of the book “Sicredi in Paraíba – Trajectory of cooperative achievements and victories” by authors João Bezerra Júnior, Paulo Valério Nóbrega and Elizomar Braga Filho. The work is the result of three years of research that culminated in 320 pages and reports on the remarkable moments experienced by the cooperatives Sicredi Evolucion, Sicredi Creduni, Sicredi Alto Sertão Paraibano and Sicredi Central North, Northeast. It also brings back historical moments from Sicredi Centro Paraibana until its union with Sicredi Evolucion. The book also tells a little about the history of the OCB/Sescoop-PB System. 30 years of history of For João Bezerra Júnior, “writing this work was a task of great relevance, as the facts reverberate not only among Sicredi associates. Its repercussion goes much further, given the Cooperativ a’s performance and presence in community, developing the region and improving economic aspects with regard to financial education. Not to mention social issues, volunteer work and sustainability.” “With our gaze focused especially on Paraíba, we trace the thread of the history of these important institutions in favor of credit cooperatives. Thus, it was possible to consolidate Sicredi's strength in the State, paving the way for achievements, ratifying the work of those who The Sicredi tents were a success, bringing a lot of flavor and fun to the fair participants, with the main mission being to raise funds for the project that has been carrying out work for over 100 years. om seniors at Sicredi Evolucion participated in the 52nd edition of the Feira do Lar da Providência, held on the 10th and 11th of September in João Pessoa, Paraíba. The charity event, organized by Lar da Providência Carneiro da Cunha, featured musical and gastronomic attractions, in addition to the participation of dozens of volunteers, being held again after a two-year hiatus due to the new coronavirus pandemic. capital of Paraíba. Functioning as a long-term institution, the home currently serves more than 130 inmates of different ages, promoting health and well-being actions accompanied by specialized professionals. Paulo Valério Nóbrega, executive director of Sicredi Evolution, states that “cooperating with others is part of what it means to be Sicredi. We are very proud to be able to contribute voluntarily in another year, bringing our message of commitment to the community to the public. Lar da Providência makes a difference in the lives of many people and we just have to be grateful for the work carried out.” The book has the support of the Organization of Cooperatives in Brazil (OCB) and the Sescoop System in Paraíba and is being launched in different cities that are part of the cooperatives are highlighted in literary work. cooperativism as a greater good, the struggle of many and the achievement of all”, adds João Bezerra Júnior. The book can be accessed virtually on the Sicredi Evolucion website at www.sicredi.com.br/evolucao. Participation in fairs and exhibitions propagates the Sicredi brand EVENTS Sicredi Evolucion has been present at important events. Since the post-pandemic recovery, it has been involved in actions promoted by large partners, such as Sebrae, Unimeds, associations and municipal governments. "Our objective is to be present and publicize our competitive differences, communicating about the opportunities in products, services and financial solutions that we offer to our members", comments Ademir Wanderley, regional director of Sicredi Evolucion. During the events, the cooperative's business teams participate at the Sicredi Evolucion stand, promoting the advantages of doing part of credit cooperatives. João Pessoa Mari João PessoaCampina GrandeBananeiras Members of Sicr edi Evoluç ãoo will have their photos on the 2023 calendar PHOTOGRAPHIC COMPETITION With the end of the Photographic Contest held by Central Sicredi NNE in partnership with all cooperatives in the region, two images of members from Sicredi Evolução were selected to make up the 2023 calendar. The theme of the competition this year was Regionality and Local Culture. 6ItabaianaCooperativa participates in the 52nd Feira do Lar da Providência SOCIAL ACTION Book tells the story of Sicredi in ParíbaLAUNCH 7 6Sicredi in Paríba. Literary work brings a historical rescue about History is not lost with time, it perpetuates itself with the passing of days. The trajectory of Sicredi cooperatives in Paraíba is the highlight of the book “Sicredi in Paraíba – Trajectory of cooperative achievements and victories” by authors João Bezerra Júnior, Paulo Valério Nóbrega and Elizomar Braga Filho. The work is the result of three years of research that culminated in 320 pages and reports on the remarkable moments experienced by the cooperatives Sicredi Evolucion, Sicredi Creduni, Sicredi Alto Sertão Paraibano and Sicredi Central Norte/Nordeste. It also brings back historical moments from Sicredi Centro Paraibana until its union with Sicredi Evolucion. The book also tells a little about the history of the OCB/Sescoop-PB System. 30 years of history of For João Bezerra Júnior, “writing this work was a task of great relevance, as the facts reverberate not only among Sicredi associates. Its repercussion goes much further, given the Cooperativ a's performance and presence in the community, developing the region and improving economic aspects with regard to financial education. Not to mention social issues, volunteer work and sustainability.” “With our gaze turned especially for Paraíba, we trace the thread of the history of these important institutions in favor of credit cooperatives. Thus, it was possible to consolidate Sicredi's strength in the State, paving the way for achievements, ratifying the work of those who rolled up their sleeves and who carried the Sicredi flag. main mission is to raise funds for the project that for over 100 years, he has been working with the elderly at Sicredi Evolucion participated in the 52nd edition of the Feira do Lar da Providência, held on the 10th and 11th of September in João Pessoa, Paraíba. The charity event, organized by Lar da Providência Carneiro da Cunha, featured musical and gastronomic attractions, in addition to the participation of dozens of volunteers, being held again after a two-year hiatus due to the new coronavirus pandemic. Working As a long-term institution, the home currently serves more than 130 inmates of different ages, promoting health and well-being actions accompanied by specialized professionals. Paulo Valério Nóbrega, executive director of Sicredi Evolucion, states that “cooperating with others is part of what it means to be Sicredi. We are very proud to be able to contribute voluntarily in another year, bringing our message of commitment to the community to the public. The Home da Providência makes a difference in the lives of many people and we just have to be grateful for the work carried out.” The book has the support of the Organization of Cooperatives in Brazil (OCB) and the Sescoop System in Paraíba and is being launched in the different cities that are part of the cooperatives highlighted in the literary work. cooperativism as a greater good, the struggle of many and the achievement of all”, adds João Bezerra Júnior. The book can be accessed virtually on the Sicredi website Evolution at www.sicredi.com.br/evolucao.Participation in fairs and exhibitions propagates the Sicredi brand EVENTS Sicredi Evolucion has been present at important events. Since the post-pandemic recovery, it has been involved in actions promoted by major partners, such as Sebrae, Unimeds, associations and municipal governments. "Our objective is to be present and publicize our competitive differences, communicating about opportunities in products, services and solutions financial services that we offer to our members", comments Ademir Wanderley, regional director of Sicredi Evolucion. During the events, the cooperative's business teams participate at the Sicredi Evolucion stand, promoting the advantages of being part of credit cooperatives. João Pessoa Mari João PessoaCampina GrandeBananeiras Members of Sicr edi Evoluç ãoo will have their photos on the 2023 calendar PHOTOGRAPHIC COMPETITION With the end of the Photographic Competition held by Central Sicredi NNE in partnership with all cooperatives in the region, two images of Sicredi Evolução associates were selected to compose the 2023 calendar. The theme of the competition this year was Regionality and Local Culture. 6ItabaianaWe installed the first personalized Sicredi watch in Paraíba in Guaraba. The equipment features a digital display with time and local temperature. FREE annual fee**See conditions at the CooperativeIdeal for you who have reached your career and business goals and want a card to go further.