Information classification: Internal Use Establish governance for sustainability, principles and guidelines applicable to all levels and Entities of the System, in order to guide decision-making in the conduct of business, activities, processes and in the relationship with our parties interested. Sustainability at Sicredi is business management with a focus on expanding our positive economic, social, environmental and climate impact, reducing adverse impacts and generating value for associates, employees, communities and other interested parties. 3. Policy Guidelines ▪ Manage economic, social, environmental and climate opportunities and challenges, taking into account guidelines aligned with good national and international sustainability practices, applicable regulations, in addition to strategic planning systemic and inspirational; ▪ Seek, through our operations, to generate positive transformations in economic, social and environmental terms in the lives of our associates and the communities in which we operate, contributing to the construction of a more prosperous society; ▪ Act in an eco-efficient manner, seeking to reduce adverse impacts on the environment that may be generated in our operations; ▪ Be effective and transparent in management, accountability and disclosure of information ; ▪ Dialogue with our interested parties, strengthening our bonds of trust and reciprocity; ▪ Encourage members to participate in the Cooperative’s decisions; ▪ Train employees and other interested parties on topics related to sustainability, as applicable; ▪ Strengthen the governance of the System, with a view to making decisions in line with this Policy, our purpose and our Sustainability Strategy; ▪ Use the Sustainable Development Framework to monitor and evaluate sustainability performance at different levels of the System, as well as on the agenda of the Sustainability Committee; ▪ Act based on the precautionary principle in decision-making, where we seek mutually beneficial solutions with reduced adverse impact on Sicredi's business and reputation; ▪ Disclose information related to sustainability, as applicable. 2. Our Definition Sustainability Strategy is guided by three drivers, which help us put our mission into practice and together with the focal themes, allow us to act with a focus on priority sustainability themes for Sicredi. In addition to regulatory and market aspects, in decision making and relationships with interested parties, we observe recognized agendas and principles that are relevant to our business. They are: Sustainability Policy Area: Foundation Sicredi Scope: Systemic Approval - Validity: 05/18/2022 – 3 years 1. Objective a) The Principles of Cooperativeism established by the International Cooperative Alliance; b) The Ten Principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact; c) The UN 2030 Agenda. Page 2 of 4 Sustainability Policy Information classification: Internal Use For support the implementation of the Sustainability Policy, we have a set of Sustainability Guidelines for the business, which are systemic, internal and organized by themes, and which aim to guide the Sicredi System towards best practices, facing the main challenges related to sustainability, available on the internal regulations page. Sustainability is a transversal theme under the management of Fundação Sicredi and implementation under the responsibility of all the Entities that are part of the Sicredi System and all its employees. 4. Governance and Responsibility It is made up of two structures with different responsibilities, one structure for decision making and the other for ensuring the implementation of the theme. Decision-making structure: It is the structure responsible for the Systemic decision process regarding the Sustainability Strategy. *Foundation Committee – Advisory committee to the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, in compliance with CMN Resolution 4,945, of September 15, 2021. **Board of Directors of Sicredi Participações S/A – SicrediPar. Structure for implementation: This is the structure responsible for ensuring the implementation of the Sustainability Policy and execution of the Sustainability Strategy at all levels of the System. Structure with systemic operations Structure with systemic impact Structure with regional operations Structure with local operations 4.1 Governance of Sustainability Cooperatives Sicredi Foundation Committee* SicrediPar Board of Directors** Sicredi Foundation Page 3 of 4 Sustainability Policy Classification of information: Internal Use 4.2 Roles and Responsibilities The Sustainability Committees of cooperatives and centers advise the Boards of Directors on aspects related to sustainability in their respective Entities, recommending local or regional initiatives for the establishment of this Policy and the Sustainability Strategy, evaluating and monitoring indicators and the effectiveness of the implemented actions. The CAS Sustainability Committee* advises the Executive Board of companies in the Sicredi Administrative Center, recommending initiatives with a view to implementing the Sustainability Policy and Strategy within the scope of activities under its responsibility, evaluating and monitoring indicators and the effectiveness of actions. This committee's scope is the initiatives and processes of CAS companies that have scope and impact for the entire System. *Entities that make up the CAS: Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and controlled companies, Confederação Sicredi, Fundação Sicredi, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores. The National Sustainability Summit is the annual forum for alignment, evaluation and recommendation regarding sustainability. conducting the Sustainability Strategy, in which all representatives of the Sustainability Committees of the entities that make up the Sicredi System come together. 4.2 Roles and Responsibilities SicrediPar's Board of Directors is responsible for: • Deliberating on this Policy, Sustainability Strategy and other issues related to sustainability at a systemic level; • Guarantee the application of this Policy, through compliance with the principles and guidelines when taking decisions; • Ensure the compatibility and integration of this Policy with other systemic policies; • Promote the systemic dissemination of the Policy and actions with a view to its effectiveness. The Foundation Committee is responsible for: The Boards of Directors of Cooperatives and Centrals are responsible for: • Guaranteeing the application of this Policy, through compliance with the principles and guidelines in decision-making; • Ensure the compatibility and integration of this Policy with other policies local or regional; • Promote the local or regional dissemination of the Policy and actions with a view to its effectiveness. • Advise the SicrediPar Board on this Policy, Sustainability Strategy and other issues related to sustainability at a systemic level, with a view to its effectiveness. The Executive Director of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi is responsible for: • Ensuring the effective local or regional implementation of this Policy and the actions aimed at its effectiveness; • Monitor local or regional performance and implemented actions, directing improvement whenever necessary; • Advise the Entity's Board of Directors within the scope of this Policy; • Ensure the correct disclosure of this Policy and other relevant information; • Represent the Entity before the Central Bank for issues related to this Policy. • Ensure the effective systemic implementation of this Policy and the actions aimed at its effectiveness; • Monitor the systemic performance and implemented actions, directing improvement, whenever necessary; • Advise the SicrediPar Board of Directors within the scope of this Policy; • Ensure the correct disclosure of this Policy and other relevant information; • Represent the System before the Central Bank for issues related to this Policy. The Executive Director of the Cooperative or Central is responsible for: The Management of Cooperatives, Centrals and Banco Cooperativo Sicredi is responsible for: • Conduct its activities in accordance with this Policy and in line with the actions implemented with a view to its effectiveness. The Sicredi Foundation is responsible for: • Recommending systemic strategies and guidelines on sustainability to the Foundation Committee; • Ensure this Policy, its implementation and the Sustainability Strategy at a systemic level; • Promote the systemic dissemination of the Policy and actions with a view to its effectiveness. It is the responsibility of the Management Committee of the SicrediPar: Page 4 of 4 Sustainability Policy Information classification: Internal Use The Executive Director of the Sicredi Administrative Center is responsible for: ▪ Resolution of the National Monetary Council - CMN nº 4,945/2021 – this document is in accordance with said resolution, and for the purposes of this internal regulation, we consider the economic, social, environmental and climatic aspects, equivalent to the term “sustainability”, applied at a Systemic level in this organization. ▪ SARB 014/2014 Regulation of the Banking Self-Regulation System of the Brazilian Federation of Banks – FEBRABAN - this document complies with said regulations. 5. REGULATORY BASIS / APPLICABLE LEGISLATION 6. FINAL PROVISIONS For the purposes of this Policy, the following concepts are considered: • Social Nature: is based on respecting, protecting and promoting fundamental rights and guarantees and common interest. • Environmental Nature: based on preserving and repairing the environment, including its recovery, whenever possible. • Climate Nature: any and all positive contributions to issues related to the climate crisis. • Stakeholders: our associates, collaborators, suppliers, service providers, partners, communities where we operate, regulatory and professional institutions, multilateral organizations, as well as other parties interested parties identified by the System Entities. The Sustainability Policy is a public document and is available on Sicredi's internal and external communication channels. It may be revised at any time in case of internal demands and/or due to legal updates, considering a maximum period of validity of 3 years, and the documentation relating to the establishment of the Policy must be kept at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil for five years. and the implementation of actions with a view to its effectiveness. Issues related to socio-environmental risk management are presented in the Social and Environmental Risk Management Policy. This Policy was approved by the SicrediPar Board of Directors, within the scope of its responsibilities. If you have any questions related to the content of this Policy, contact Fundação Sicredi by email at sistência@sicredi.com.br.