Classification of information: Unrestricted Use SICREDI NORTE - COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT CNPJ/MF 83.315.408/0001 -80 NIRE – 15400001783 CALL NOTICE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF DIGITAL CORE (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43 -A ) The President of the Board of Directors of SICREDI NORTE - COOPERATIVA DE CRÉDITO, with headquarters at Tv. Humaitá, nº 1001, neighborhood of Pedreira, Belém–PA, CEP: 66.083 -340, registered with the CNPJ under nº 83.315.408/0001 -80, in the use of the attributions that gives it the Social Statute of the Cooperative, calls on the MEMBERS from all the Cooperative's cores, which on this date total 9,621 (nine thousand six hundred and twenty-one), in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet in a General Assembly of Cores , to be held digitally and transmitted via the internet, on March 14, 2023, at 5:00 pm, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members, on first call; at 6:00 pm, with the presence of half plus one of the associates, on second call; and at 7:00 pm, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) members, on third call. The Assembly will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly Platform * accessed via the website sicredi.com.br/assembleia s/, to deliberate on the following matters, which make up the Agenda: 1. Election d the Center Coordinators and their Substitutes; 2. Comprehensive Reform of the Bylaws; 3. Approval of Systemic Regulations; 4. Accounting for the 2022 Fiscal Year; 5. Apportionment and allocation of surpluses/losses determined; 6. Election of the Board of Directors and Members of the Supervisory Board and; 7. Establishment of fees for the Executive Board, the President and Vice-President of the Board of Directors, attendance certificates and travel allowances for members of the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board and Executive Board. Belém (PA), January 25th 2023. Dr. Wilson da Silva Machado Chairman of the Board of Directors Classification of information: Unrestricted Use OBSERVATIONS: 1. Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the meeting participation tool will be available to members on the website sicredi.com.br/coop/norte/a ssembleias/ and at the cooperative’s headquarters; 2. To participate in the digital assembly, the member must follow the following steps: a) Check that your telephone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or go to your cooperative; b) Through the website sicredi.com.br/assembleia s/, register by creating a password; c) On the day and time of the Assembly, access the website sicredi.com.br/assembleia s/ again, enter your CPF and registered password, click on your cooperative's event and you will be able to participate in discussions and votes on the items in the Assembly. Order of Day; 3. Members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, will be guaranteed the right to express themselves in writing, addressed to the board of directors, via chat, thus safeguarding your full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020; 4. Voting will be carried out using an electronic system currently enabled of the Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool; 5. The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43 -A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN -DRE I nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request; 6. At the time of this publication, the Electoral Commission appointed by the Administrative Council ; 7. The deadline for closing registrations for Center Coordinators, Board of Directors and Members of the Fiscal Council will close at 17:00 hours, on February 13, 202 3. *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: Access the tool through the website sicredi.com.br/assemblei as/, register and identify yourself with your CPF and password. On the day and time indicated in the preamble, for any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time.