Setor Hote\error SM — Quadra O6 Comunto A — Btoco A 1" floor — sa\a105 703164300 — Brasﬂra — DF — Brasrl Buirdjng 3 better Te! +55 6121040100 working world 9V-00'“-“F Independent auditor's report on the financial statements To the Administrators, Advisors and Cooperative Members of Sicredi Norte - Coop de Crédito (formerly known as Sicredi Norte - Cooperativa de Crédito) Belém - PA Opinion We examined the financial statements of Sicredi Norte - Coop de Crédito, previously called Sicredi Norte - Cooperativa de Crédito (“Cooperative”) which comprise the equity balance as of December 31, 2022 and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, comprehensive income, changes in net equity and cash flows for the year ended on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present adequately, in all relevant aspects, the equity and financial position of the Cooperative as of December 31, 2022, the performance of its operations and their respective cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities in compliance with such standards, are described in the following section, entitled “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of financial statements”. We are independent from the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Code of Professional Ethics and in the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, and we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support our opinion. Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report The Cooperative's board of directors is responsible for this other information that comprises the Management Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Management Report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on this report. J EY Building a better working world In connection with audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the management report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise , appears to be significantly distorted. If, based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is a material misstatement in the Management Report, we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Board and governance responsibilities for financial statements The board is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of financial statements in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN), and for the internal controls that it determined as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. When preparing the financial statements, the board of directors is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis | in the preparation of financial statements, unless the board of directors intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no realistic alternative to avoid the closure of operations. Those responsible for the Cooperative's governance are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing financial statements. Auditor's responsibilities for auditing the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error, and to issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security | It is a high level of security, but it is not a guarantee that the audit carried out in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards always detects any existing relevant distortions. Distortions may result from fraud or error and are considered relevant when, individually or together, they can influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users taken based on the aforementioned statements. financial. As part of the audit performed in accordance with Brazilian and international audit standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. In addition: - We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, whether caused by fraud or error, plan and perform audit procedures in response to such risks, as well as obtain appropriate audit evidence and enough to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, omission or intentional false representations. 2 EY Building a better working world - We obtain an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not with 0 The objective is to express our opinion on the effectiveness of the Cooperative's internal controls. - We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board. - We concluded on the adequacy of the use, by the board, of the operational continuity accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is relevant uncertainty in relation to events or conditions that could raise significant doubt in relation to the Cooperative’s operational continuity capacity. If we conclude that material uncertainty exists, we should draw attention in our audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or include a modification of our opinion if the disclosures are inadequate. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Cooperative to no longer remain in good standing. operational continuity. - We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner compatible with the objective of fair presentation. We communicate with those responsible for governance regarding, among other things, the planned scope, timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any signiﬁcant deficiencies in internal controls that we identified during our work. Brasilia, February 27, 2023. ERNST & YOUNG Auditores Independentes S/S Ltda. CRC SP-015199/F Renata Zanvotta Caigada‘ ‘ Contadora CRC-RS062793/O-8