Classification of information: Internal Use SICREDI EXPANSÃO ELECTORAL CODE APPROVED AT THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF DELEGATES ON 11/26/2021. 1 Classification of information: Internal Use SICREDI EXPANSÃO ELECTORAL CODE – CREDIT COOPERATIVA CHAPTER I INITIAL PROVISIONS Art. 1 This code regulates the electoral processes of Sicredi Expansão, being adopted for any elections held within the scope of said cooperative. Art. 2 Elections for the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council will be carried out by full slate. § 1 In the event that there is a single ticket, the electoral process may be simplified, by acclamation, subject to proof of no electoral impediment or ineligibility to hold the positions to be filled, as well as the fulfillment of the required technical and/or academic requirements . § 2º If there is no registration of any complete plate for compete for the election, the general assembly, duly called and installed, will be able to choose in its own course, among the members, the candidates for the positions to be filled, and must enter into a permanent session until the documentation proving the eligibility criteria has been collected and not electoral impediment, as well as the technical and academic requirements required, referring to each of the chosen candidates and, only then, carry out the vote on the ticket formed with the chosen candidates. CHAPTER II ELECTORAL PROCEDURE Section I Electoral Commission Art. 3 The electoral process will be conducted by an Electoral Commission constituted specifically for this purpose, for each election, ensuring its autonomy and independence. § 1 The Commission will be appointed by the Board of Directors with the minimum advance notice necessary to meet all deadlines essential to the organization of the electoral process. § 2 The Commission it will be made up of at least 03 (three) individual members, with the possibility of appointing substitutes, subject to the following requirements: a) not composing the list of candidates; b) not be holding a position on the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; c) not be spouses, partners, relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, of the candidates or occupants of current mandates on the Board of Directors, Fiscal or Executive Board of the Cooperative; d) not be employees of the Cooperative. § 3 Members of the Electoral Commission will receive a cost allowance equivalent to the value of two current attendance cards, regardless of the number of meetings during the electoral process. Art. 4 The Electoral Commission is responsible for: I - receiving the registration protocols of candidate lists; II - analyze whether registered candidates meet the legal, statutory and code requirements necessary for candidacy for elected positions and other aspects related to the 2 Information classification: Internal use electoral process; III - approve or not the ticket(s)/registered candidate(s); IV - define the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period preceding or during the nucleus assemblies and general assembly; V - define whether the vote will be by acclamation or secret, including the operational aspects related to the election, especially when there is more than one ticket registered, such as: a) the model of voting ballots or electronic voting, the location of ballot boxes and voting booths, as applicable; b) the procedures for determining the results of the election, including requesting, if necessary, the support of members present to monitor the process and assist in counting the votes; c) the treatment and forwarding of requests received from candidates/candidates regularly registered in the process; d) the beginning and end of the voting process; e) general instructions relating to the process and the result of the vote. VI - inform the registered panel(s) of their decisions; VII - resolve omitted cases; VIII - apply the penalties provided for in this code or in the Minutes of the Electoral Commission. § 1 The meetings will be recorded in minutes and the deliberations are valid by the decision of a simple majority, with the majority of the committee members present. § 2 In the first meeting, the Commission will choose a coordinator and a secretary from among its members. § 3 In the absence of members of the Electoral Commission at the core assembly, the Commission will appoint a representative. § 4 The Electoral Commission may request technical assistance from areas of the Cooperative for the work of the Commission. § 5 In the event of a tie in voting for candidates for the Board of Directors or Fiscal Council, at the general meeting, the winner will be the one whose All candidates present a longer average time of association with the Cooperative. § 6 Unless expressly and individually consented, in accordance with the General Personal Data Protection Law, no personal data of members will be provided for the purposes set out in this code. Art. 5 The practice of the following acts is prohibited by any member of the ticket/candidate, by themselves or by interposed persons: I - using information protected by bank secrecy or by the General Data Protection Law; II - adopt practices that may cause harm or damage to the image of Sicredi or any of the entities that make up Sicredi; III - threaten or coerce members or collaborators of the Cooperative; IV - propagate untruths or information without due proof; V - offer advantages or privileges in exchange for votes; VI - use the Sicredi brand; VII - violate current legislation, the Cooperative's Bylaws or this code. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may provide, in minutes, other practices that it considers prohibited. Art. 6 The practice of any of the infractions provided for in this code will subject the offending party/candidate to the following sanctions, applied alternately or cumulatively at the discretion of the Commission 3 Classification of information: Internal Electoral Use, without prejudice to civil and criminal liability: I - warning , in writing; II - temporary suspension of any manifestation of advertising the ticket/candidate, in any medium and location; III - revocation of registration of the ticket/candidate's candidacy. § 1 The application of the penalty(s) will be preceded by notification to the Board/candidate so that, within the deadline set by the Electoral Commission, they can present a response. § 2 Whether or not the response mentioned in § 1 of this article is received, within the fixed period, the Electoral Commission will decide on the application of the penalty, with due communication to the Board/candidate. § 3 All Penalties applied will be communicated by the Electoral Commission at the Assemblies. Section II Registration of the Board(s) Art. 7 The President of the Board of Directors will disclose to the membership, at least 45 (forty-five) days before the first Core Assembly, the opening of the term of registration of the slate(s) for the election of the Board of Directors and/or Supervisor, as well as for the election of delegates. § 1 The disclosure will be posted in a location visible, preferably in agencies, other forms of dissemination being provided, at the discretion of the Cooperative. This disclosure must contain, at a minimum: a) the registration period, indicating the times; b) the place of registration; c) indication of the documents required for registration. § 2 The registration period will begin with the disclosure mentioned in this article and will end 30 (thirty) days before the first Nucleus Assembly is held, with the application for registration The request must be filed at the Cooperative's headquarters between 9 (nine) and 5 (seventeen) hours. § 3 The registration protocol must be accompanied by the documents required by this code, an email address or telephone number for contact and be signed. In the case of registration of a ticket, the signature may be carried out by only one of its members, who will be the representative of the ticket for all purposes. § 4 Once the registration period has ended, the Cooperative will publish the list of ticket(s)/registered candidate(s) the following day. § 5 The slate(s) for the Board of Directors and the slate(s) for the Fiscal Council must be independent and complete. § 6 Individual registrations for candidacy for elected positions will not be accepted, except in the case of delegates, and simultaneous participation on more than one ticket is prohibited. Art. 8 Once the publication of the slates/registered candidates has been carried out, any member will have the period of 2 (two) days to present an objection, duly accompanied by supporting documents. Single paragraph. If there is an objection, a period of 2 (two) days will be opened for the contested ticket/candidate to respond and, as soon as the deadline has expired, the documentation will be forwarded to the Electoral Commission. Art. 9 Up to 10 (ten) days before the First Core Assembly, the Electoral Commission 4 Classification of information: Internal Use will meet to: I - decide on possible objections; II - analyze compliance with legal, statutory requirements and this code; III - approve or not the ticket(s)/candidate. § 1 Before deciding whether or not to approve the ticket(s)/candidate, the Commission may: I - request additional information, or determine measures, for assistance within 2 (two) days, and, after analysis of this , decide, as appropriate; II - for a single time, determine the replacement of component(s) of plate(s) that do not meet the corresponding requirements, to be serviced within 2 (two) days, and must comply with the provisions of art. 8th of this code; III - accept replacement in case of death; IV - receive, up to 5 (five) days before the deadline set out in § 8 of this article, a single request for replacement of candidate(s), per ticket, indicating the respective substitute. § 2 When considering the request for registration of slate(s) or candidacy, the Electoral Commission will refuse registration when: I - the filed request is not accompanied by the documents provided for in this Electoral Code; II - the same member appears as a candidate on more than one ticket, and the other ticket has already been registered, in the case of election by ticket; III - the same member appears as a candidate for member of the Board of Directors and Fiscal Council, in the same term of office, even if on different slates, with the one having registration already approved, in the case of election by slate; IV - the slate of candidates for re-election does not meet the mandatory minimum renewal provisions set out in the Law, the Bylaws, the rules of the regulatory body and this Electoral Code. V - if it is proven that the member(s) falls into any of the causes of ineligibility; VI - the objection is judged to be valid. § 3 Non-approval will cover the entire plate, even when the objection granted concerns only one or some of its components. § 4 There will be no appeal against the decision on whether or not to approve the ticket(s)/candidate. § 5 Up to 3 (three) days before the first Core Assembly, the Commission will publish the final nomination, in a visible place and easily accessible to interested parties, on the Cooperative's premises. § 6 Once the final nomination has been announced, the approved plate(s) cannot be changed, except in the case of death. § 7. In the case of a single plate, after approval, the replacement of candidate in the event of withdrawal, death or when it is found that the corresponding requirements are not met. § 8. In the event that replacement is admitted after approval of the ticket (§ 6 and §7), the Electoral Commission will grant a period of 2 (two) days for the ticket to promote the replacement of the component, observing the requirements for candidacy and the provisions of art. 8th of this code. Art. 10. Once the ticket(s) has been approved, the Electoral Commission must carry out meeting in order to define: I - the procedures relating to the manifestation of candidates in the period preceding or 5 Classification of information: Internal use during meetings, with the use of the Sicredi brand by any candidate being prohibited; II - the operational aspects related to the election and voting, especially when there is more than one regularly registered ticket. Single paragraph. The Electoral Commission may invite representatives of the slates to participate in the meeting covered in this article. Section III Documents Art. 1 1. Along with the request for a protocol from each ticket/candidate, the applicants are responsible for delivering the documents for each component/candidate, listed below, the veracity of which will be verified by the Electoral Commission, through the means its scope: I certified copy of the identification document and CPF; II declaration of disqualification from exercising the position, if elected to the governing body administration or supervision; III negative or positive certificates with negative effects on debts of federal, state and municipal taxes and contributions, including those of any company of which he is the controller or administrator; IV civil, state and federal certificate, from their respective domiciles and where they carry out activity, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for delivery, including from any company of which they are controlling or administrator; V criminal, state and federal certificate of the respective domiciles, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; VI electoral criminal certificate, issued with a date no later than 30 (thirty) days from the date established for its delivery; VII negative or positive certificate with negative effects on labor debts; VIII negative certificate of title protest; IX declaration issued by the candidate that he does not appear in the register of issuers of bad checks (CCF); X copy of the latest income tax declaration, or exemption declaration, in both cases with updated asset stratification; XI professional curriculum; XII form/declaration(s) provided by the Cooperative duly completed and signed by all members of the list(s)/candidate; XIII for candidates for the Supervisory Board, document proving that they have satisfactorily attended the course of fiscal council for credit cooperatives with a minimum duration of 16 (sixteen) hours and participation in at least 2/3 (two thirds) of the Ordinary General Assemblies, in the last 3 (three) years; XIV for candidates for the Board of Directors, document proving that they have satisfactorily attended the course(s) required in this code, and participation in at least 2/3 (two thirds) of the Ordinary General Assemblies in the last 3 (three) years; XV to candidates for the position of delegate, document proving that they have satisfactorily attended the course of the Sicredi Crescer cooperative training program, routes 1 and 2. 6 Classification of information: Internal Use XVI declaration signed by all members of the slate or candidates that they have time to dedicate themselves to the activities of the Cooperative and containing the commitment that, if their names are elected and approved by the competent official body, they will assume and exercise the respective mandates; XVII express authorization from the members of the ticket or candidate for the Electoral Commission to consult the relevant bodies or information services. § 1 The electoral commission will be responsible for analyzing cases and occurrences that are related to items "c", "d" and "h", in accordance with the regulations of the Central Bank of Brazil. § 2º The documents referred to in this article are the exclusive and entire responsibility of the candidates, and it is not the responsibility of the Cooperative and its employees any measures to obtain or make them available. CHAPTER III CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY AND INELIGIBILITY Art. 12 The basic conditions to apply for election to the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council of Sicredi Expansão, as well as for the position of delegate: § 1º Have attended at least 02 ( two) core assemblies from the last 3 (three) meetings; § 2º Be an individual who is in full enjoyment of their legal and statutory rights on the date of convening the General Election Assembly, and cannot be: I – prevented by law or rules issued by regulatory bodies; II – convicted of a crime of bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property, or against the National Financial System, or the criminal penalty that prohibits, even if temporarily, access to public positions; III – declared disqualified from holding management positions in institutions authorized to operate by the competent Official Body, including private pension entities and insurance companies, or in any publicly-held companies; IV – blood relative or similar member of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, the Executive Board, up to the second degree, in a direct or collateral line, as well as employees of the cooperative; V – spouse of candidate or member of the Council Administration and Tax; VI – employee of a member of the Board of Directors or Supervisory Board; VII – held criminally liable with a final and unappealable sentence, have protested credit instruments or are registered on credit restrictive registers or on the register of issuers of bad checks; VIII – cooperative delegate; IX – partner or administrator of a firm or company that, during the period of his participation or administration, or soon after, has been held responsible or appears as a passive subject of civil and criminal action with a conviction; X - bankrupt, insolvent or bankruptcy, nor belonging or belonging to the firm or society that is subordinated or subordinated to those of the rides; XI – who has participated in the management of financial institutions, including a credit cooperative, whose operating authorization has been revoked or not extended, or which has been or is in liquidation extrajudicial or under intervention; 7 Classification of information: Internal Use XII – anyone who participates in the administration of any other financial institution, except central cooperatives and cooperative confederations; XIII – whoever holds more than 10% (ten percent) of the capital of any other financial institution; XIV – whoever maintains or has maintained an employment relationship with Sicredi, until the accounts for the year in which they left their employment have been approved; XV – who holds an elected public position as part of the executive and legislative powers in any of their spheres, and is a member of political party directories; XVI – executor, estate representative, curator and guardian; XVII – former councilors removed from their positions due to unjustified absences from meetings of their respective Councils, with the impediment lasting for two consecutive terms. § 3 To hold the position of President of the Board of Directors, Vice-President or Administration Advisor, in addition to the legal and statutory requirements, candidates must cumulatively meet the following conditions: I - participation in a cooperative training course in the last 3 (three) years, or have a postgraduate course in credit cooperatives, or have been a director of a credit union; II - not have taken legal action against the Cooperative or any entity that makes up the Sicredi System; III - not having used an advance to depositors or have defaulted on the cooperative. CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 13 The application for plate registration cannot be refused based on the lack of proof of the candidate's attendance at cooperative training courses, if the Cooperative has not sponsored them in each of the 3 (three) last years. Art. 14 With the proclamation of those elected, the powers of the Electoral Commission come to an end. Art. 15 After approval of the names of those elected by the competent official body, they must take office in their respective positions, being responsible from then on for the acts they carry out. Single paragraph. The inauguration will take place at the beginning of business on the first business day of the month following that in which correspondence from the Central Bank of Brazil is received approving the names of those elected, in the case of positions that require such a procedure. Art. 16 The election may be carried out using an electronic ballot box or an online voting system. -line. Art. 17 The “ballot booth” will not be permitted inside the building designated by the Electoral Commission for the elections, in the agencies and at the headquarters of active Cooper, respecting a minimum distance of one hundred meters from these locations, nor will it be advertising and/or sound propaganda is permitted on election day. Art. 18 Once the voting period has expired and if there are still queues of members, tickets must be distributed to guarantee the right to vote to all those present until that date. time. Art. 19 The member can only vote in the nucleus of which he or she is a part, with the minimum age for voting being 16 years old until the day of publication of the notice. Art. 2 0 Mentions of “candidate(s)” in this code are understood, as a rule, to be related to delegate(s). Art. 2 1 The deadlines set out in this code will be counted in calendar days, excluding day 8 Classification of information: Internal Use at the beginning and including the end day. Single paragraph. If the day of Due date falls on a holiday or weekend, the deadline will be considered extended until the next business day. This Electoral Code was approved at the General Assembly held on 11/26/2021.