BYLAWS OF ARTICLE BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT COOPERATIVE – SICREDI EXPANSION CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION TERM AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI. Section I Name, Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1 The Credit Cooperative – Sicredi Expansão, established at the General Assembly of September 28, 1992, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and limited liability, governed by current legislation and by this Statute, having: I – Headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in Maceió, at Avenida João Davino, nº 671, Mangabeiras – CEP 57.035 -555, in this State of Alagoas; II – area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi Nordeste, limited to municipalities in the State of Alagoas; to the municipalities of Balsas, Benedito Leite, Fortaleza das Nogueiras, Loreto, Mirador, Novas Colinas, Pastos Bons, Riachão, Sambaíba, São Domingos do Azeitão, São Félix de Balsas, São Raimundo das Mangabeiras and Tasso Fragoso, in the State of Maranhão; and the following municipalities in the State of Bahia: Araças, Aramari, Cabaceiras do Paraguaçu, Conceição do Almeida, Cruz das Almas, Dom Macedo Costa, Governador Mangabeira, Muniz Ferreira, Muritiba, Santo Antônio de Jesus, São Felipe, Sapeaçu, Varzedo, Paulo Afonso, Boa Vista do Tupim, Elísio Medrado, Iaçu, Ibiquera, Itaberaba, Lajedinho, Pedrão, Piritiba, Ruy Barbosa, Tapiramutá; and in all municipalities in the State of P ernambuco; III – indefinite duration. Section II Integration with Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Northeast – Central Sicredi Nordeste, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and the other affiliates, Sicredi – System of Cooperative Credit, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of Credit Cooperatives Individuals, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities in which they participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the System of Cooperative Credit (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and expression of the respective Central in the conclave and core assemblies with members, of which it must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 3º Entry and The Cooperative's permanence in the System, as well as the use of the Sicre di brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - with systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with its own regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - regulation official and internal regulations of Sicredi. § 4 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to the subjection to other sanctions provided for by law. § 5º The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, aiming to assist it to resolve irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the Company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 6 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to transactions in the account bank reserves, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 7º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of cooperatives individuals affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 8 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 9 The Center must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so determine, the reports arising from the verification. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures go to website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 10 The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the Sicredi Fundos Garantidores funds, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11 To Central Sicredi Nordeste, as coordinator of the System's actions in its area of ​​activity, as well as to the Sicredi Confederation, formed by cooperatives central members of Sicredi, powers of representation are granted, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 12 The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE PURPOSE Art. 3 Sicredi Expansão's corporate purpose is: I - carrying out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing and savings, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of their activities, they will be strictly observed the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND METHODS OF TERMINATION Section I This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. Composition and Admission Conditions Art. 5 May be associated of the Cooperative the people who agree with these Bylaws, fulfill the conditions established here and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activities in the area of ​​action of the Cooperative; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out an activity; V - other legal entities and depersonalized entities that have a link with the cooperative or with any of its members, regardless of the location where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; VII – individuals, legal entities and entities depersonalized individuals who reside or are established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Nordeste, excluding, for this hypothesis, municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to Central Nordeste or another Central. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2 To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose admission, complete the number of quotas - minimum shares provided for in §2 of art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of §2º of the art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - the one who exercises activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 90 (ninety) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - the one who performs movement of values ​​incompatible with its financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through public or private document, or omit registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of items IV and V of the art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links. Section II Rights Art. 6 Members' rights are: I - participate in meetings and Core Assemblies discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in these Statutes and in internal regulations; III - use the operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to the statutes and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity observed in the management of the Company or normative-statutory infraction committed by an associate; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the Assembly, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in General meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the Sicredi System, except those protected by secrecy; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the General Meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 7. Duties of associates: This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and the other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative or through it; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - do not practice, within and outside the Cooperative, activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the Cooperative and in the events organized by it, political, religious, racial and gender neutrality, and always bear in mind that cooperation is of common interest, overriding individual interests; VII – cover losses for the year, if any, as a rule in proportion to the operations carried out with the Cooperative or, exceptionally, by another method of distribution defined by the Board of Directors, if the Reserve Fund is not sufficient to cover them. VIII - keep registration information up to date, promptly responding to requests from the Cooperative to do so, assuming that correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data. Single paragraph. The dismissal, the elimination or exclusion of the member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-in shares and the value of the losses verified in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the General Assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the shutdown. § 1 The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required to do so, except in the circumstances of §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative as a result of their This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim DaSilva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to active Cooper, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9. The dismissal of the member occurs at his/her request, formalized in writing and cannot be be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 1 0. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Executive Board of the Cooperative and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 90 (ninety) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, supervisor or director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Executive Board. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they present the reasons that, in your opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Executive Board, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating them from the membership, in accordance with this section. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be through physical or electronic. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counted from the communication of the elimination, with suspensive effect to the first General Assembly to be held. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 5 When any advisor or director falls foul of the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him/her, as appropriate, preventively from his duties, while the investigation continues, informing him of the checks carried out, so that within 15 (fifteen) days he can present his reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing this, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on the elimination or general meeting to decide on the dismissal, as applicable. Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11. Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. § 1. Changing the conditions for subsequent admission to the association will not be considered as loss of the statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 obligations of the deceased member, contracted with the Cooperative and those arising from his responsibility as a member, vis-à-vis third parties, pass to the heirs, up to the limit of the inheritance forces and the subscribed shares, prescribing, however, after one year from the day of the opening of the succession. CHAPTER IV SHARE CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 1 2. The share capital is unlimited in terms of maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as for the minimum, the amount of R$ 100,000.00 (one hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in current currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into quotas worth R$ 1.00 (one Real), and for the purposes of occasional and partial redemption of share capital, the member is obliged to maintain a minimum capital of 10,000 ( ten thousand) shares. § 2 When joining the Cooperative, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 3 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may delegate it to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete your readmission. § 4 For a continuous increase in share capital, the member will subscribe and pay every month, for an indefinite period of time, starting from the 2nd (second) month of capitalization, the minimum value equivalent to 20 (twenty) shares. § 5 Members who are employees of associated companies will pay, every month, for an indefinite period of time, starting from the 2nd month of capitalization, the amount equivalent to 10 (ten) quota shares. § 6 Associates qualified as social entrepreneurs and their employees may carry out a single capitalization of 20 (twenty) shares; as members of the digital platform, they will make a single capitalization of 1 (one) share. § 7º The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and its subscription, realization, transfer or refund will be registered in the Book, Registration Form or in its respective electronic record, noting that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total shares. § 8 The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 9º The shares of the capital are unseizable. § 10 In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses for the corresponding fiscal year, subject to the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 11 The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after the approval, by the general assembly, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments by the Cooperative, starting on same period, within 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering the financial conditions and assets of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Society's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 12 The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, respected the systemic indication. § 13 The Social Capital may be returned to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 1 1 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To verify For subscriptions, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. III - the financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative are considered, respecting its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation. § 14 The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 60 (sixty) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, may, exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining its status as an associate, with the minimum number of shares established in § 1 of this article. § 15 The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw up to 70% of their share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, you may the member redeems up to 50% of the value of the share capital, maintaining their membership status, with the minimum number of shares established in § 1 of this article. § 16 In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum quotas established in § 1 of this article. § 17 The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by members, including for the purpose of dealing with unforeseeable circumstances, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of member with the minimum quotas established in § 1 of this article, as long as they are preserved the asset limits established by current legislation. § 18 In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit arising from the value of its share of capital, and the total value of the existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 19 If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he/she left the membership. In the event of a balance remaining debtor resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may collect it through the means permitted by the national legal system. § 20 The return referred to in §§ 14, 15, 16 and 17, if approved by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, will be given at the discretion of this collegiate body, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its framework in all li patrimonial limitations required by current legislation, and payment in installments by the Cooperative is also permitted. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 21 The shares - shares of the capital are part of the assets of the Cooperative society and They cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 22 If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be offset, at the discretion of the cooperative, with their respective quotas, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital quotas, maintaining your membership status with a minimum of membership fees established in § 1 of this article. § 23 The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal. § 24 In addition to the hypotheses of redemption of shares provided for in this article, the Board of Directors of the Cooperative may authorize redemptions in situations it deems relevant, maintaining its condition of associated with the minimum of 10,000 shares established in § 1 of this article. CHAPTER V GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Section I General Provisions Art. 13. The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions of interest to the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even if absent or disagreeing. § 1º A accountability for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of members of the administrative and fiscal councils, when they are matters on the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously assessed in core assemblies. § 2 The other matters on the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly in Delegate Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When the matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will inform members later. § 4 The coordination of core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if this is impossible, by whoever he indicates. §5 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. This document was signed digitally by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. Art. 14. General meetings will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days in advance, through a notice, which must be published, prominently, on the website of the Cooperative or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request that is not met within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, hypothesis in which at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as applicable); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for the participation of members, in the case of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held in second or third calls, on the same day as the first, with an interval minimum of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as it is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15. The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in the second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice. Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by groups, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, deprived, however, of voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all matters on the agenda. This document was signed digitally by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the period of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position as delegate. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17. For the purpose of representation what the art deals with. 16, the distribution of vacancies for delegates among the nuclei will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into nuclei consisting of a minimum of 1,500 and a maximum of 3,000 members, with the grouping of members in the nuclei carried out by the Board of Directors; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of this Bylaws, respecting the other rules set out in the regulations. Art. 18. The election of Delegates will take place at a Core Assembly, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one substitute delegate will be elected, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elective positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in the regulations. § 2 The election will be carried out by open or secret voting, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors. § 3 In the case of a secret vote, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will observe the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19. If it is not possible to hold a general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, it will be the call for a new date is reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20. The general assemblies will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary for the work. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary for the work. § 2 When the general meeting has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be presided over and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main parties interested in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21. The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the The Center will be represented by its alternate or another appointed member, as applicable. Art. 22. Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except regarding matters of exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for the validity of which votes of 2/ 3 (two thirds) of the delegates present. Single paragraph. Deliberations and other events Substantial meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the meeting and the secretary of work. Art. 23. The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum, both at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, everything duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 24. The Ordinary General Assembly must be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the Management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - Allocation of surpluses determined or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting in the first case the installments for the funds statutory; III - Election of the members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board; This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. IV fixing, at the time of the reading and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, the attendance cards and bonuses for Board members; V approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI Any matters of social interest, duly mentioned in the Call Notice, excluding those falling within the exclusive competence of the Extraordinary General Meeting. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25. The Extraordinary General Assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, as long as it is mentioned in the Call Notice. § 1 It is the exclusive competence of the Extraordinary General Assembly to deliberate on the following matters: a) reform of the Bylaws; b) merger, incorporation or dismemberment; c) change in the Company’s purpose; d) voluntary dissolution of the Company and appointment of liquidators; e) liquidator's accounts; f) maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. CHAPTER VI ELECTORAL PROCESS Art. 26. The electoral process will comply with the provisions of the systemic Electoral Code, being conducted by an Electoral Commission specifically constituted for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and its independence, reporting operationally to the same board, which will define cost allowances for its members. CHAPTER VI I ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of 12 (twelve) advisors, including a President, a Vice - This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. For to check the signatures go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. President and 10 (ten) members, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, without prejudice to meeting the additional requirements set out in systemic regulations: I - not maintain an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi or, even, with a member of the Board of Directors, Fiscal Council or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, directly or collaterally, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board, as well as with employees of the Cooperative; III - not be, simultaneously, an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that make up Sicredi or whose capital these participate; IV - not have held or be holding a party political position or function in the last four years; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - do not respond or any company of which he is a controller or administrator, due to pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuance of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or have a negative record in any banks data; VIII - not have, through intent or fault, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to the image of Sicredi or any of its entities members of Sicredi; IX - have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) Ordinary Core Assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; X - have participated, in the immediately preceding exercise, or participate in the courses and other training and recycling events programmed by the system, according to the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to the attendance to all other events aimed at directors during their term of office, up to 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for full compliance with statutory and legal incumbency, being prohibited accumulation with another position or function (he or not), which requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in the cooperative; XII - have certification from the Crescer Program; This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Son, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. XIII – preferably, be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator and the Belonging Program Coordinator in the Cooperative where he/she is a member, or have held a statutory position in the Cooperative; XIV – have training in a higher-level course; XV - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVI - not negatively expose, or undermine, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any trademarks owned by the entities that are part of Sicredi; XVII - not having suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVIII – not be bankrupt or in bankruptcy or have belonged to a company or company that has been subject to those regimes; XIX – not be a person declared unqualified to hold a management position in a financial institution, insurance company, private pension entity or publicly-held company; XX – not have participated in the administration of a financial institution, whose operating authorization has been revoked or not extended or which is in extrajudicial liquidation, receivership, bankruptcy or under government intervention. XXI – not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which he or she is a majority shareholder or administrator, the provision of services or the supply of products that , in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months. § 1 When analyzing the situations and occurrences provided for in section VII, the relevance, severity, recurrence and circumstances of each case will be considered. § 2 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during the course of their mandate or who, for the same reasons, have been removed from office or resigned from the position for which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, being that those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. § 4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. Vice president; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 6 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among themselves, will designate successor(s), and the first Assembly that follows will elect new occupant(s) for the positions. referred(s) position(s), whether or not the designated person(s) are confirmed, and the person(s) elected will serve the remaining time of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President successful(s). Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following constitute, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in the elected position: I - the loss of the quality of associate; II - non-attendance, without prior justification, at 2 (two) consecutive or 3 (three) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - sponsorship, as party or proxy, of measure legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political position - partisan, he must submit a request to resign from the position elective in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination was confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood to be: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councilman, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with electoral and constitutional legislation current; II - Member of a party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. In general, they are elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (State Ministers, State and Municipal Secretaries). This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. Art. 28. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I – meets, ordinarily, once a month and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, upon call by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the majority of the Board of Directors or even by the Supervisory Board; II – deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III – the deliberations will be recorded in detailed, detailed minutes, with all the circumstances, drawn up in the appropriate book, read, approved and signed, at the end of the work, by the s members of the Board of Directors present; IV – its deliberations will be incorporated into the Sicredi Expansão Normative System. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest, or that respect to their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 29. The Administration Council is responsible, within the limits of the law and these Statutes: I - establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and fulfillment of the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Cooperative's Executive Board, in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, including the Internal Regulations, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the directors, observing the provisions contained in the Statute; V - authorize the contracting credit operations with financial institutions, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VI - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VII - forward to the General Assembly a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; VIII - deliberate on the acquisition, alienation or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. IX - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the Company, including those relating to them forwarded by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of applicable penalties; X - decide on the convening of the General Assembly; XI - previously authorize capital participation in other companies or entities, complying with the social purposes of the cooperative and respecting the current legislation and the enforcements and only guidelines on it; XII - authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate about the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of other facilities or branches of the Cooperative, inside or outside the host municipality, in accordance with current legislation; XIII - comply with and enforce this Statute, the legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XIV – express opinions on the management report and financial statements for the year; XV - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVI - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the General Assembly, if applicable; XVII – establish or terminate committees to meet the Cooperative’s needs, appointing and dismissing its members, in accordance with the Internal Regulations; XVIII – deliberate on policies and guidelines relating to internal controls, security and safety risk management and respective contingency plans, proposed by the Executive Board; XIX – decide on the application of the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund – FATES; XX – prepare and submit to the decision of the General Assembly a proposal for the creation of funds; XXI – decide, on a discretionary basis, on the form and deadlines for returning quotas - shares of share capital referring to dismissed, excluded or eliminated members, provided that the projections of the result of the Cooperative at the time of release is positive and the redemption does not imply non-compliance with the operational limits defined by the regulatory body and by law; XXII – deliberate on the convening of General and Nucleus Assemblies; XXIII – remove delegate, in accordance with this Statute and other applicable rules; XXIV – define, organize and publicize, in a timely manner, the grouping of members into groups; XXV – establish rules for omitted cases, until subsequent deliberation of the General Assembly. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each one, with registration in minutes, the relevant tasks. Art. 30. The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the activities of the Cooperative, including compliance with applicable rules, coordinating the action by the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the formation of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating, specifically, to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, to the Board of Directors for consideration, monitoring their implementation; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the General Assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that if they demand it; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic - corporate matters before the System, and also at General Assemblies and meetings of Societies in whose capital the Cooperative participates; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the staff social on the Cooperative's premises, aiming to ensure satisfaction and quality of services provided to members; XII - apply the penalties stipulated by the General Assembly or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of General Assemblies and Board of Directors meetings. Art. 31. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at General Assemblies and meetings of Companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. Art. 32. Vocal advisors are responsible for participating in Board meetings of Administration, bringing and discussing proposals, voting on their deliberations. Section II Executive Board Art. 33. The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of 2 (two) Directors, one being an Executive Director and one Director of Operations. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (nine) days after the end of the term of office or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same manner and term or, at any time, dismissed by the Board of Directors. § 3 The inauguration of the elected candidate(s) will take place within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 4 The Cooperative will be represented, in Court or outside of it, actively and passively, except as provided in section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with specific powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with specific powers. § 5 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed-capital companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of leave of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that imply the absence of a plurality of Directors and unfilled vacancies. §6 The members of the Executive Board must, whenever requested by the collegiate, participate in meetings of the Board of Directors Administration, in order to provide clarifications on aspects of management. §7 In the event of a vacancy in any position on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint a replacement, who will serve the remainder of the term of office. §8º The members of the Executive Board, after approval of their appointment by the Central Bank of Brazil, will be invested in their positions according to terms of position drawn up in the Minutes Book of the Executive Board. Art. 34. To be able to exercise the For the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to VIII and XV to XVIII, as well as § 2; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V – meet the complementary systemic requirements when provided for in the regulations. Art. 35. It is the responsibility of the Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations: I - manage operationally the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the Company, in compliance with the provisions of these Bylaws; III - appoint attorneys, establishing them, in an instrument of mandate skills, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. The power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out specific acts and for a fixed period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, in compliance with the provisions of these Statutes; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate assets classified as current assets of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such transactions; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guideline and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for their execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution monthly, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. X - comply with and enforce technical audit and internal control notes and guidelines, aiming at security and respect for Sicredi’s legislation and internal regulations; XI - decide on the granting of any type of donation of movable assets, contribution or assistance, regardless of beneficiary and value, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities typical of the Cooperative's ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 36. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – The Executive Director: a) foster and support the relationship between the executive areas with the Administration and Fiscal Councils of the Cooperative, subsidizing and supporting the work; b) provide resources and ensure the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperative development and sustainability programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) be responsible for performance management and monitoring the Cooperative's results, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual work plan or multi-year, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. i) prepare and respond to the implementation of tactical planning for product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; j) be responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative’s annual planning; This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. k) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; l) respond to the execution of the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; II – The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative’s performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure the respect for internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1º It is prohibited for any of the members of the Executive Board to practice acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, allowing the granting of guarantees, guarantees and other guarantees, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are pertinent to its corporate purpose and as provided for in this Bylaws. § 2º The Executive Board is not a body collegial body, and may, however, meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within their competence, especially those defined in art. 35 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 37. In case of vacancy, absence or temporary impediment of any director, the Board of Directors will be responsible for appointing his replacement, in accordance with these Bylaws, whose mandate will coincide with the mandate of the other Director. Single paragraph. In case of vacancy in all positions of the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 38. Directors are prohibited from intervening in the study, approval, control or settlement of business, or loans that they eventually intend or contract with the Cooperative and, directly or indirectly, are interested in Companies in which they have control or participation greater than 10 % (ten percent) of the share capital or, in the management of which they participate or have participated, up to 02 (two) years immediately prior to the position. Art. 39. The Councilors of Administration and directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1º Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. of duties, determine damage to the Company, will be directly liable, with their own assets, for compensation for the damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote accountability of the Board of Directors and directors whose actions or omissions, as per the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 40. The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) substitute, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing - if, as regards the conditions and requirements for the application and exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, Caput and its § 2, both of this statute, observing the due proportions and also in accordance with what is established in systemic regulations. § 1 The members of the Fiscal Council will have a mandate of 02 (two) years. § 2 The election of the members of the Fiscal Council requires a complete slate(s), independent and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in art. 2 7, Caput and its § 2 of this Statute. § 3º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 4 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 41. The Supervisory Board meets, ordinarily, once a month and, extraordinarily, when necessary. § 1 At its first meeting it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and directing the works, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its members and at the request of the Assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 42. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective advisor will be replaced by the alternate. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors Management will call the General Meeting for due completion, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, § 7, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures go to website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 3 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political - party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed. , under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 43. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and regulations internal to Sicr edi, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over the assets, operations with associates, services and the actions of administrators; II - assiduously control financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the General Assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide necessary information to the performance of its functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and by the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, regarding strategic and corporate matters of interest to all the individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Sicredi; VII - report to the Board of Directors the conclusions of its work, warning about irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the Assembly General and Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the General Assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the Cooperative; X - call a General Assembly, by deliberation of the majority of its members, always serious or urgent reasons occur. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the administration of the Cooperative, whose practice results from its proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the General Assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, already authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of counselors and directors for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. §3 The deliberations of the Fiscal Council will consist of reports, the main topics of which will be transcribed, even in summary, in the respective minutes, drawn up in a specific book and signed at the end of the meetings by the supervisors present. CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 4 4. The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 4 5. They will rise two balance sheets during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 4 6. The surpluses determined at the end of each year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 45% (forty-five percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and attend to the development of the Cooperative; II - 05% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), intended for the provision assistance to members, their families and Cooperative employees; III - recomposition of resources from the guarantee funds, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1 The percentage allocated to the reserve fund, provided for in item I of this article, will be scaled as follows: 26% (twenty-six percent) in the fiscal year 2023; 27% (twenty-seven percent) in 2024; 30% (thirty percent) in 2025; 35% (thirty-five percent) in 2026; 40% (forty percent) in the year 2027 and 45% (forty-five percent) from the year 2028 onwards; § 2º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the Available surpluses, in compliance with the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares of the members' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. § 3 Donations without a specific destination may be allocated to the reserve fund before determining mandatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 47. The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be proportional to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general meeting. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general meeting, to compensate, through surpluses from subsequent years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the year just ended. Art. 48. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. Art. 49. The services to be provided by the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund may be carried out through agreements with other entities. CHAPTER the General Assembly, as long as the members, totaling a minimum number required in this Statute, are not willing to ensure its continuity; II - by change of its legal form; III - by reducing the minimum number of members or the minimum share capital if, until the subsequent General Assembly, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of its activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 51. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER XI OF THE OMBUDSMAN’S OFFICE – SHARED OMBUDSMAN Art. 52. The Cooperative will maintain an agreement to carry out Ombudsman activities with an entity that is part of the System, in accordance with current legislation. CHAPTER This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B. Art. 54. The rules issued by the Sicredi System are mandatory and automatically incorporated into Sicredi Expansão's regulations. Art. 55. The current members of the Board of Directors will have their mandates preserved until the inauguration of their successors, elected at the 2024 Ordinary General Meeting. Art. 5 6. The Boards Regional and Business may be maintained until April 30, 2024, with the preservation of the mandates of their current occupants. Art. 57. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after consulting, when appropriate, the social bodies. Maceió/AL, October 9, 202 3. Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho Chairman of the Board of Directors Ricardo Gonçalves Tavares Executive Director Maurílio da Silva Ferraz Director of Operations Lenildo Amorim da Silva Business Director This document was digitally signed by Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho, Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz, Ricardo Goncalves Tavares and Lenildo Amorim Da Silva. To check signatures, go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B.SIGNATURE PROTOCOL(S) The document above was proposed for digital signature on the Portal de Sicredi subscriptions. For check the signatures click on the link: https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br/Verificar/7B1C-2DF5- 0A4B-DA3B or go to the website https://sicredi.portaldeassinaturas.com.br:443 and use the code below to check if this document is valid. Verification code: 7B1C-2DF5-0A4B-DA3B Document Hash C495D610D6799CC234C7E71657D441CE4CDBA52D76739F27AB96558DBED77721 The name(s) indicated for signature, as well as their status on 11/01/2023 is(are): Edval from Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho (Chairman of the Board of Directors) - 520.065.144-15 on 10/31/2023 15:03 UTC- 03:00 Type: Digital Certificate Maurilio Da Silva Ferraz (Operations Director) - 061.252.984-34 on 31/ 10/2023 10:17 UTC-03:00 Type: Digital Certificate Ricardo Goncalves Tavares (Executive Director) - 404.143.534-04 on 10/27/2023 10:55 UTC-03:00 Type: Digital Certificate Lenildo Amorim Da Silva (Business Director) - 240.498.754-20 on 10/27/2023 09:21 UTC-03:00 Type: Digital Certificate