Classification of information: Internal Use BYLAWS OF SICREDI EXPANSÃO – COOPERATIVA DE CREDIT CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION, FISCAL YEAR AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI. Art. 1 Sicredi Expansão – Credit Cooperative, established at the General Assembly of 28.09.92, is part of the Sicredi North/Northeast Cooperative Credit System, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and of responsibility and limited, governed by current legislation and this Statute, having: a) Headquarters, administration and legal jurisdiction in the City of Maceió – State of Alagoas, Avenida João Davino, 671, Mangabeiras – CEP 57.035 -555 - Maceió; b) Area of ​​action in the municipalities of the State of Alagoas: Balsas, Benedito Leite, Fortaleza das Nogueiras, Loreto, Mirador, Novas Colinas, Pastos Bons, Riachão, Sambaíba, São Domingos do Azeitão, São Félix de Balsas, São Raimundo das Mangabeiras and Tasso Fragoso, in the State of Maranhão; and in the following municipalities in the State of Bahia: Amélia Rodrigues, Aratuípe, Cabaceiras do Paraguaçu, Cachoeira, Camaçari, Candeias, Castro Alves, Catu, Conceição do Almeida, Cruz das Almas, Dias d´Ávila, Dom Macedo Costa, Governador Mangabeira, Itanagra, Itaparica, Jagu aripe, Lauro de Freitas, Madre de Deus, Maragogipe, Mata de São João, Muniz Ferreira, Muritiba, Nazaré, Pojuca, Salinas da Margarida, Salvador, Santo Amaro, Santo Antônio de Jesus, São Félix, São Felipe , They are Francisco do Conde, São Sebastião do Passé, Sape açu, Saubara, Simões Filho, Terra Nova, Varzedo, Vera Cruz, Paulo Afonso, Água Fria, Anguera, Antônio Cardoso, Baixa Grande, Boa Vista do Tupim, Conceição da Feira, Conceição do Jacuípe, Coração de Maria, Elísio Medrado, Feira de Santana, Iaçu, Ibiquera, I pecaetá, Ipirá, Irará, Itaberaba, Itatim, Lajedinho, Macajuba, Mairi, Mundo Novo, Ouriçangas, Pedrão, Pintadas, Piritiba, Rafael Jambeiro, Ruy Barbosa , Santa Bárbara, Santanópolis, Santa Teresinha, Santo Estêvão, São Gonçalo dos Campos, Serra Preta, Tanquinho, Tapiramutá, Teodoro Sampaio, Várzea da Roça, Araças, and Aramari; and in all municipalities in the State of Pernambuco. c) Indefinite duration and fiscal year of 12 (twelve) months, starting on January 1st and ending on December 31st of each year. Art. 2 The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the North/Northeast – Central Sicredi North/Nordeste, hereinafter called “Central”, it integrates, with this and other affiliates, Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Information Classification: Internal Use Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPa r) and all legal entities of which these participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Sicredi with prior authorization from its general assembly, ensuring the participation and expression of the respective Central in the conclave and core assemblies with members, of which it must be previously and demonstrably notified. § 3 Entry and the Cooperative's permanence in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned on compliance, in particular: I - with systemic rules on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with official regulations and in compliance with standards internally defined by the System; III - of the regulations official regulation and internal regulations of Sicredi. § 4 Failure to comply with any of the requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to being subject to other sanctions provided for by law. § 5º The Center, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to resolve irregularities or in cases of risk to the solidity of the Company itself or the solidity and/or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 6 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to transactions in the account bank reserves, accessed through Banc o Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 7º Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6º of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are part of Sicredi. § 8 The responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph can only be invoked after judicially demanding that of the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and that of the respective Central. § 9 The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to complying with the legislation and regulations in force and also with Sicredi's own standards, and may examine books and accounting records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep it at the disposal of the Bank. determine, the reports resulting from the verification. § 10 The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 6 and 7 of this article, plus financial contributions destined to Sicredi Fundos funds Guarantors, in accordance with their own regulations, form a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 11 Central Sicredi NNE, as coordinator of the actions of the System in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for dealings with companies and entities, including members of S icredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 12 The expression "legislation" comprises laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. CHAPTER II CORPORATE OBJECT Art. 3 Sicredi Expansão's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out operations specific to credit cooperatives, including housing financing and savings, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other papers, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, funds and investment clubs , and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and other universal values. Single paragraph. In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulations and systemic standards, participate in the capital from other companies or entities of the System, as well as making use of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicred i, especially in relation to those activities that can be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER III MEMBERS Section I Admission Conditions Art. 5 The number of members will be unlimited, but cannot be less than 20 (twenty) individuals. Article 6 All natural persons who are in full civil capacity and legal entities may join the cooperative, as long as they agree with this Statute, meet the conditions established therein and reside or have their headquarters in the area where the Cooperative operates. Single paragraph. The cooperative has extraordinary autonomous concurrent legitimacy to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members, when the cause of action is on acts of direct interest to members that are related to the Cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through a General Assembly that decides on the proposition of the judicial measure. Art. 7 To be part of the membership, the interested party must complete and sign the admission proposal, pay the minimum number of shares provided for in this Statute which, together with the registration in the Book, Enrollment Form or its respective electronic record, will complete your admission as a member and determine the assumption of rights and obligations arising from this Statute. Sole paragraph – The following will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative and will not be able to remain there, in addition to the cases provided for in the legislation: I - anyone who may compete with the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost their employment relationship with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; Classification of information: Internal Use products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has irregular or outdated registration information. Section II Rights Art. 8 The member has the right to: I - participate in meetings and Core Assemblies and, through delegates, in the General Assemblies, discussing and voting on the matters that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elective positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in the applicable legislation, in this Statute and internal regulations; III - use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official standards, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors changes to the statutes and internal regulations, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any eventual irregularity observed in the management of the Company or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by an associate; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the Assembly, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in General meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System Sicredi, except those protected by secrecy; VII - have access, examine and obtain information on the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the General Meeting; VIII – resign from the Cooperative when it suits you. Section III Duties Art. 9 The member is obliged to: I - comply with the legal provisions of this Statute and the other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling obligations and other commitments made with or through the Cooperative; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; Classification of information: Internal Use V - do not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that characterizes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the Cooperative and in the events organized by it, political neutrality, religious, racial and gender, and always bear in mind that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII – cover losses for the year, if any, as a rule in proportion to the operations carried out with the Cooperative or, exceptionally, by another distribution method defined by the Board of Directors, if the Reserve Fund is not sufficient to cover them. VIII - keep registration information up to date, taking into account in a timely manner the called by the Cooperative for this purpose, assuming that correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, forwarded by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data are received, within 5 (five) business days from their dispatch. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities that are part of Sicredi, the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 10 The members, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, are subsidiarily liable for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the General Assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the General Assembly. § 1º The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, can only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, except in the cases set out in §§ 2º and 3º below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative in as a result of its participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits to the Bank Reserves account and those arising from the use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Classification of information: Internal Use Section V Termination Art. 11. The dismissal of the member, who will not be able to be denied, will only be done at your written request. Art. 12. The elimination of a member will be decided by the Executive Board of the Cooperative and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of regulations internal at Sicredi; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a Board Member, Auditor or Director. § 1 Members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative may also be eliminated, at the discretion of the Executive Board. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Executive Board the reasons that, in its opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Executive Board, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, will assess the reasons presented and communicate its decision to the member, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating him from the membership, in accordance with this section. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which This may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counting from the communication of the elimination, with suspensive effect to the first General Assembly to be held. § 5º When any advisor or director incurs the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Executive Board will investigate the infractions, which will be included in a specific report, subsequently presented to the Board of Directors for adoption of the necessary measures. Art. 13. The exclusion of the member will occur due to the dissolution of the legal entity, death of the individual or loss of unfulfilled civil capacity or for failing to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the Cooperative provided for in art. 7th, Sole Paragraph, of this Statute, in the latter case by decision of the Executive Board. Sole paragraph – The obligations of the deceased member, contracted with the Cooperative and those arising from his responsibility as an associate, vis-à-vis third parties, they pass to the heirs, up to the limit of the inheritance forces and subscribed shares, expiring, however, after one year from the day the succession opens. Classification of information: Internal Use CHAPTER IV SOCIAL CAPITAL Art. 14. The maximum share capital is unlimited and variable according to the number of associates and subscribed shares, but cannot be less than R$ 100,000.00 ( one hundred thousand reais). Sole Paragraph – The share capital is subdivided into quotas with a unit value of R$ 1.00 (one real). For the purpose of eventual redemption of capital, the member is obliged to maintain a minimum capital of 10,000 (ten thousand) shares. Art. 15. The member is obliged to subscribe, ordinarily, the minimum number of share shares worth R$ 20.00 (twenty reais) equivalent to 20 (twenty) share shares of R$ 1.00 (one real ) each, subscribed and paid in at the time of association. § 1 continuous increase in share capital, will subscribe and pay in every month, for an indefinite period of time, starting from the 2nd (second) month of capitalization, the minimum value equivalent to 20 (twenty) shares. § 2 Members who are employees of associated companies will pay, every month, for an indefinite period of time, starting from the 2nd month of capitalization, the amount equivalent to 10 (ten) shares, except for members of the “WOOP SICREDI” platform, “SICREDI X”, which will carry out single capitalization of 1 (one) share. § 3 Associates qualified as social entrepreneurs and their employees will be able to carry out a single capitalization of 20 (twenty) shares. § 4 The request for reinstatement of a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from membership will be analyzed by the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of quotas to be subscribed and paid in to complete their readmission. § 5 The General Assembly, upon proposal of the The Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new shares - shares of capital, defining, including the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 6º The quotas -parts of the paid-in capital always respond as guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as a guarantee to other members or third parties. § 7 The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative Society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations to third parties, as long as the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. § 8 If the member does not promptly fulfill the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the member may be compensated, at criteria of the Cooperative, with their respective quotas, surpluses or annual remuneration on the capital quotas, maintaining their status as a member with the minimum quotas established in art. 15 of this Statute. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 16. No member may subscribe to less than the minimum number of shares provided for in this Statute, nor more than a third of their total. Art. 17. All movement of shares will be recorded in the current accounts from the book or Enrollment Form or electronic means. § 1 The member may request the Cooperative to redeem any capital shares, twice each year, in order to preserve, in addition to the number of shares, compliance with the limits established by current regulations and the entirety of the capital and net equity, whose Resources must remain for a sufficient period of time to reflect the stability of the Cooperative's fixed capital nature. § 2º Us In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their member status. Art. 18. The share is indivisible and non-transferable to non-members, and cannot be negotiated or given as a guarantee; its subscription, transfer or refund will always be recorded in the Registration Book or Form, using a term that will contain the signatures of the President of the Board of Directors, of the Assignor and the Assignee. Art. 19. The Cooperative will establish the proportionality that must exist between the value of the paid-in capital and the average deposit balances, in relation to the loans raised by members. Art. 20. The return of capital will be made in accordance with article 22 of these Bylaws. § 1 In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit resulting from the value of their share of capital, and the value total existing debt with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 2 In the event of the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which the member left the membership. In the event that there is a balance remaining, there must be pain arising from some obligation of the disconnected member, the Cooperative may charge him through the means permitted by the national legal system. Art. 21. The heirs of the deceased partners will be entitled to the values ​​of the shares - shares of the capital and other credits existing in their name, determined, at the end of the fiscal year in which the death occurred, with the sub - claimed the right to receive what the deceased partner had. Art. 22. The return of capital to the member dismissed, eliminated or excluded will only be made after approval, by the General Assembly, of the balance sheet for the year in which the dismissal occurred, and may be paid in up to 12 (twelve) monthly installments. Single paragraph. The Board of Directors may decide on the immediate return of share capital to dismissed, eliminated or excluded members, as long as the Cooperative's projected results at the time of release are positive and Classification of information: Internal Use or redemption does not imply non-compliance with the operational limits defined by the regulatory body and by law. CHAPTER V OPERATIONS Art. 23. The Cooperative may only carry out active, passive and ancillary operations specific to credit cooperatives, in accordance with current legislation and regulations, exclusively with its members. §1º The granting of loans will be subject to the setting of maximum amount and deadlines, in order to meet the greatest number of requests, in accordance with the Standards of the Central Bank of Brazil, and established by the Internal Regulations. §2 The maximum amounts and deadlines will be gradually increased, according to the sum of available resources. §3 The priority in granting loans will be based on the degree of urgency that the member has, with preference for those of lower value. §4º The member not served in the month will compete in the following month, under equal conditions, with the other requests. §5 Loan requests will be previously studied and evaluated in all aspects, in accordance with the rules established in the Sicredi System credit manual. §6º The Cooperative may carry out special operations with third parties, aiming to preserve the purchasing power of the currency, within the limits set by the Central Bank of Brazil. CHAPTER VI GENERAL AND CORE ASSEMBLY Section I General Provisions Art. 24. The General Assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and of these Bylaws, will make any and all decisions in the interest of the Society, and its deliberations are binding on everyone, even if they are absent or disagree. § 1 The matters on the agenda of the General Assembly must be previously considered in Core Assemblies, whose meetings, which may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, will be coordinated by the President of the Board of Directors. Administration of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or even in the impossibility of these, by whoever indicates that. § 2 At the discretion of the Board of Directors, and if the relevance and urgency of the topics so recommend, the matters on the agenda of the Extraordinary General Assembly may be deliberated by the Assembly of Delegates, with subsequent notification to members at the first Assembly of Nucleus that occurs. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 25. The General Assembly will normally be convened and chaired by the President of the Board of Directors, and may also be called by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, if there are serious or urgent reasons, or by 1/5 (one fifth) of the delegates in full enjoyment of their social rights after a request not met by the Board of Directors. Administration, within a maximum period of 5 (five) days, duly proven. Sole paragraph – The call will be made through a notice published in a newspaper and posted in appropriate places in the most commonly used facilities. attended by members, in addition to communication through physical circulars or electronically. Art. 26. In any of the hypotheses referred to in the previous article, Extraordinary and Ordinary General Assemblies will be called at least 10 (ten) days in advance, so that they can be held on first call, except for General Assemblies in which an election takes place , when the notice will be 45 (forty-five) days. Single paragraph. The General Assemblies They may be held in second and third calls, on the same day as the first, with an interval of one hour, as long as this is expressly stated in the Call notice. Art. 27. The quorum for the installation of the General Assembly is as follows: a) 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates able to vote, on first call; b) half plus one of the number of delegates able to vote, in a second call; c) at least 10 (ten) delegates able to vote, in third call Sole Paragraph. For the purpose of verifying the quorum referred to in this article, the number of delegates in each call will be determined by the signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book. Art. 28. The Notices of the General Meetings must include: a) the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OR/AND EXTRAORDINARY, as the case may be; b) the day and time of the meeting, in each call, as well as the place of its holding, which, unless there is a justified reason, it will always be the registered office; c) the ordinal sequence of calls; d) the agenda of the work with the appropriate specifications and, in the case of a Statute Reform, an indication of the matter; e) the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of calculating the installation quorum; f) place, date and signature of the person responsible for the call. § 1 The call notices will be posted in visible places, at all Cooperative posts, sent to members through physical or electronic circulars, and publication in a newspaper. § 2 The General Assembly may be suspended, allowing its continuation at a later date, provided that: I - the place, date and time for the session to continue are determined; Classification of information: Internal Use II - the record in the minutes of the installation “quorum”, verified both at the opening and at the resumption of the Assembly; III - the agenda set out in the notice is respected. § 3 Sus thinks the General Assembly, in order for it to continue, the publication of new call notices is mandatory, except if the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the meeting does not make it possible to comply with the legal deadline for this publication. § 4 The General Assemblies referred to in the caput may be held in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, as long as this condition is included in the call notice. § 5 Assemblies that are held remotely must guarantee the effective participation of delegates. § 6 If it is not possible to hold the General Assembly due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. § 7 If the General Assembly does not take place under the terms of the previous paragraph, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new delegates. § 8º In case of absence unjustified vote by the delegate and their respective substitutes at the General Assembly in which the group they represent has obtained a quorum in the respective Core Assembly, the vote of the group will be expressed through an associate appointed by the General Assembly itself. Art. 29. At General Assemblies, members will be represented by delegates elected in accordance with this article and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, however, deprived of their voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all subjects on the agenda, except for matters that refer to them, directly or indirectly, individually or in relation to the status of delegate, with the duty to indicate such status, however, they will not be deprived, in both circumstances, to take part in the respective debates. In these cases, the nucleus will be represented by its alternate or another appointed associate, as appropriate, which also applies in the case of absence from the General Assembly of a delegate whose nucleus has obtained a quorum in its respective Core Assembly. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, with re-election being permitted. In the case of replacement of delegates during the term of office, the person replacing will only serve the remainder of the term of office of the person being replaced. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate will not be able to hold any other position, elective or not, paid or unpaid, in the Cooperative and, if he/she were to apply for a statutory position or be hired as a employee of the cooperative, must resign as delegate at the same time. § 4 The vote expressed by the delegate at the General Assembly is linked to the decision taken at the Core Assembly by the members he represents, recorded in specific minutes. § 5 The Core Assembly must be held, obligatorily, once a year, before the Ordinary General Assembly, and whenever necessary when it is scheduled to be held Classification of information: Internal Use of General Assembly Extraordinary, and will observe the rules for convening — except for publication in the newspaper — installation, deliberation and impediments to participation in voting and participation in debates applicable to the General Assemblies of the Cooperative, and members who have been admitted after their convocation or is in breach of any provision of these Bylaws. § 6 The Core Assemblies may be held jointly. Art. 30. The nuclei will be made up of a minimum of 1,500 and a maximum of 3,000 members, and will be represented by an effective delegate and two substitutes, with the grouping of members in the nuclei carried out by the Board of Directors. Art. 31. Delegates will be ordinarily elected at a Core Assembly held in the last year of the current term of office among the members who make up the group to be represented and who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold an elected position in the cooperative, or keep employment relationship with her, subject to the other requirements set out in the Electoral Regulations, through secret voting. §1 Only members who were admitted before its convocation can vote at the Core Assembly. § 2 Voting in the Core Assemblies will, as a rule, be in the open, and the Assembly itself may exceptionally opt for a secret vote, and is taken by a simple majority, except for matters that require a qualified majority in law or in Cooperative's Bylaws, in which case such deliberation quorum must be observed. § 3 The candidacy for delegate is individual, restricted to individual members, and the order of classification for the purposes of electing a delegate will be based on the number of votes, with those who obtain the most votes within the number of vacancies considered effective, and alternates , the others in descending order and, in the event of a tie, the tie will be broken based on the highest seniority as a member of the Cooperative and later age. § 4º The dismissal of a delegate will take place through a formalized request, duly substantiated, by at least 1/3 (one third) of the members who make up the group he represents to the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, in which case the said collegiate must evaluate and deliberate on the claim, ensuring contradictory and broad defense, as well as organizing, within 60 (sixty) days, a Core Assembly in which a new election to fill the vacant position, only if there is no suitable substitute. § 5 Anyone who unjustifiably misses two General Assemblies or who establishes an employment relationship with the Cooperative or who applies for elective positions at the Cooperative, or who registers on credit restriction or credit issuer registers, will automatically lose their position as delegate. bounced checks. Art. 32. The election of delegates must observe, where appropriate, the rules established in this Statute and other Cooperative rules on election to statutory positions, with the possibility of issuing its own rules, to be approved by the General Assembly. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 33. It is the responsibility of the Ordinary or Extraordinary Assemblies to remove the members of the Board of Directors, including the President of the Board of Directors and the members of the Fiscal Council. Single paragraph. In the event of dismissal that could compromise the regularity of the administration or supervision of the entity, the General Assembly may appoint administrators and advisors until the new ones take office, whose election will take place within 30 (thirty) days. Art. 34. The work of the General Assemblies will be directed by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by an ad hoc Secretary, who will draw up the minutes, and those occupying social positions present will be invited to participate at the table. §1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will preside over the work, who will invite another member to act as secretary and draw up the respective minutes. §2º When the General Assembly has not been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be directed by an associate, chosen on the occasion, secretariat by another, invited by the appointed associate, with those interested in calling it forming the work table. Art. 35. The holders of management positions, as well as any other associates, will not be able to vote on decisions on matters that relate directly or indirectly to them, including accountability and setting fees; however, they will not be deprived of taking part in the respective debates. Art. 36. At General Meetings in which the balance sheet and accounts for the year are discussed, the President of the Board of Directors, immediately after reading the management report, the accounting documents issued by internal or external authorities and the opinion of the Fiscal Council, will ask the plenary to nominate an associate to preside over the meeting, during the debates and voting on the matter. §1º Once the direction of the work has been transmitted, the President of the Board of Directors and the other occupants of social positions will leave the table, remaining in the area at the disposal of the Assembly, for the clarifications requested of them. §2 The appointed President will choose among the other members present, an ad hoc Secretary, to assist in drafting the decisions to be included in the minutes, by the Secretary of the Assembly. Art. 37. The deliberations of the General Assembly may only concern the matters of the Call Notice. §1 As a rule, the vote will be in the open, but the Assembly may opt for a secret vote, in compliance with the usual rules. Decisions on elimination, dismissal, appeals and election to social positions, however, they will only be taken by secret vote. §2º What occurs at the General Assembly must be included in the detailed minutes, drawn up in the specific Book, approved and signed by: President of the Board of Directors or, Classification of information: Internal Use in its absence, by the Vice-President, by the Secretary of the Assembly and however many more members want to do so. §3 The decisions of the General Assemblies will be taken by the personal vote of the delegates present with the right to vote, with each delegate entitled to 1 (one) vote, representation through an agent is not permitted. Art. 38. Prescribes in 4 (four) years, in accordance with the legislation in force, the action to annul the deliberations of the General Assembly vitiated by error, fraud or fraud, counting from the date on which the Assembly was held. Section II Ordinary General Assembly Art. 39. The Ordinary General Assembly must be held once a year, within the period legal, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the Management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - Allocation of surpluses determined or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover expenses of the Company, deducting in the first case the installments for statutory funds; III - Election of the components of the Administration and Fiscal Councils in accordance with these Bylaws; IV fixing, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses for the members of the Councils; V - Any matters of social interest, duly mentioned in the Call Notice, excluding those of exclusive competence of the Extraordinary General Assembly. §1 The approval of the report, balance sheet and accounts of the management bodies does not relieve its components of responsibilities. §2 Members of the administration and supervisory bodies cannot participate in voting on the matters referred to in items I and IV of this article. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 40. The Extraordinary General Assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, as long as it is mentioned in the Call Notice. § 1 It is the exclusive competence of the Extraordinary General Assembly to deliberate on the following matters: a) reform of the Bylaws; Page 15 of 27 Information classification: Internal use b) merger, incorporation or dismemberment; c) change in the Company’s purpose; d) voluntary dissolution of the Company and appointment of liquidators; e) liquidator's accounts; f) maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. § 2 The votes of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates present are necessary to make the deliberations referred to in this article valid. Art. 41. The simple reform of the Statute does not mean changing the object of the Cooperative which, when it is a reason for deliberation, must be clearly included in the notice. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 42. The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a deliberation body collegial body, composed of a President, a Vice-President and 14 (fourteen) member advisors, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, without prejudice to the fulfillment of the complementary requirements set out in the systemic regulations and Electoral Regulations: I - not maintain employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi or, even, with a member of the Board of Directors, Supervisory Board or Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not being a spouse or partner, nor are they related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board, as well as with employees of the Cooperative; III - not simultaneously be an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they have a stake; IV - not having exercised or being holding a party political position or role in the last four years; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII - not respond, nor any company of which it is controlling or administrator, for pending issues relating to protest of titles, legal charges, issuing of bad checks, default on obligations and other similar occurrences or circumstances, including in any Sicredi entity, or having a negative record in any databases; Classification of information: Internal Use VIII - not having, through intent or fault, committed an irregularity that caused any damage or damage to the image of Sicredi or any of the entities members of Sicredi; IX - have worked assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (be an active member) and have participated in at least 2 (two) Core Assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years immediately preceding, or participate in courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events directed to directors during their term of office, up to 1 (one) year after taking office; XI - have availability of time for full compliance with statutory and legal incumbency, and accumulation is prohibited with another position or function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with responsibility in Cooperativ A; XII - have certification from the Crescer Program; XIII – preferably, be exercising or have exercised, as holder or substitute, the role as Program Center Coordinator Belonging to the Cooperative where you are a member, or having held a statutory position in the Cooperative; XIV – have training in a higher-level course; XV - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVI - not negatively expose, or undermine, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or of any brands owned by the entities that make up Sicredi; XVII - not having suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in accordance with Sicredi's Internal Regulations. XVIII – not be bankrupt or in bankruptcy nor have belonged to a company or company that has been subordinated to those regimes; XIX – not be a person declared unqualified to hold a management position in a financial institution, insurance company, private pension entity or publicly-held company; XX – not have participated in the management of a financial institution whose operating authorization has been revoked or not extended or which is in extrajudicial liquidation, receivership, bankruptcy or under government intervention. § 1 Ex-employees dismissed for just cause will not be able to apply for social positions, nor will directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms in the course of their mandate or who, for same reasons, have been dismissed or resigned from the position to which they were elected. § 2 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, the immediately higher whole number must be considered, being that those elected will remain Classification of information: Internal Use in office until the inauguration of successors, allowing them, since the election, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those who succeeded. § 3 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Board of Directors will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the President and Vice-President are absent at the same time, the Council will appoint replacements from among its members. § 4 In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice -President of the Board of Directors, the directors, among them, will designate successor(s), and the first Assembly that follows will elect new occupant(s) for the aforementioned position(s), confirming or not the (s) appointed, and the person(s) elected will serve the remaining period of the term(s) of the President and/or Vice-President(s) succeeded. Reducing the number of members of the Council to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, must be elected new components within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the missing management time. § 5 The following are, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in an elected position: I - loss of associate status; II - failure to attend, without prior justification, 2 (two) consecutive meetings or 3 (three) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in form of current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal action against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for the holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 6 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 7 For the purposes of this Statute, party political position is understood to be: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. In general, they are elected at the "convention" Classification of information: Internal use of the party, assuming functions of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (Ministers of State, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 43. The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I – meets, ordinarily, once a month and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, upon call by the President of the Board of Directors, the majority of the Board of Directors or the Supervisory Board; II – deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III – the deliberations will be recorded in detailed, detailed minutes, with all the circumstances, drawn up in the appropriate book, read, approved and signed, at the end of the work, by the members of the Board of Directors present; IV – its deliberations will be incorporated into the Si credi Expansão Normative System. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No director may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of interest, or that concern their relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 44. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, within the limits of the law and these Statutes: I - to establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and fulfillment of the planning approved by it; II - monitor and supervise the performance of the Executive Board of the Cooperative, in view of the objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, including the Internal Regulations, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - appoint and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the directors, observing the provisions contained in the Statute; V - authorize the contracting of credit operations with institutions financial, intended to finance the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VI - decide on the payment of the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; Classification of information: Internal Use VII - forward to the General Assembly a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; VIII - decide on the acquisition, disposal or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the Company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of applicable penalties; X - decide on the convening of the General Assembly; XI - authorize, in advance, capital participation in other companies or entities, meeting the social purposes of the Cooperative and respected current legislation and systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XII - authorize the change of the headquarters address, within the same municipality, as well as to decide on the opening, closing, transfer or change of address of the other facilities or branches of the Cooperative, within or outside the headquarters municipality, in the terms of current legislation; XIII - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and internal regulations of Sicredi; XIV – express opinions on the management report and financial statements for the year; XV - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVI - deliberate on specific matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as on omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until subsequent deliberation by the General Assembly, if applicable; XVII – establish or extinguish committees to meet the needs of the Cooperative, appointing and dismissing its members, in accordance with the Internal Regulations; XVIII – deliberate on the policies and guidelines relating to internal controls, security and risk management and respective contingency plans, proposed by the Executive Board; XIX – decide on the application of the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund – FATES; XX – prepare and submit to the decision of the General Assembly a proposal for the creation of funds; XXI – decide, on a discretionary basis, on the form and deadlines for the return of shares of share capital relating to dismissed, excluded or eliminated members, provided that the projections of the Cooperative's results at the time of release are positive and the redemption does not imply non-compliance with the operational limits defined by the regulatory body and by law; XXII – decide on the convening of Nucleus Assemblies; XXIII – dismiss delegate, as per this Statute and other applicable rules; XXIV – define, organize and publicize, in a timely manner, the grouping of members into groups; Classification of information: Internal Use XXV – establish rules for omitted cases, until further deliberation by the General Assembly. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 45. Compete to the President of the Board of Directors: I – monitor and supervise the Cooperative’s activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of relative work plans, specifically, the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, to the Board of Directors for consideration, monitoring their implementation; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the General Assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, inside or outside the company, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in General Assemblies and meetings of the Societies whose capital the Cooperative has participate; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to the members; XII - apply the penalties that are stipulated by the General Assembly or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of General Assemblies and Board of Directors meetings. Art. 46. The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his/her leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at General Assemblies and meetings of the Societies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 47. Members of the Board of Directors are responsible for participating in meetings of the Board of Directors, bringing and discussing proposals, and voting on their deliberations. Section II The Executive Board Art. 48. The Executive Board, subordinate to the Board of Directors, is made up of six Directors, including an Executive Director, an Operations Director, a Business Director and up to three Regional Directors. §1º The President of the Board of Directors, in specific meeting, and by majority vote of those present, will submit the names of the candidates to the Executive Board of people with notable knowledge and expertise on the subject of responsibility in their area of ​​activity, and may even propose to the Board of Directors their dismissal at anytime. §2 The simultaneous exercise of positions on the Board of Directors and the Executive Board is prohibited. §3º Observed the hypotheses of exclusive competence of the Assembly General, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors, the Executive Board is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the Company and its representation, in court or out of court, actively and passively, with mandatory observance of the systemic governance norms. §4 The Cooperative will be represented by the signature of: I - jointly by two Directors; II - a Director, together with a duly qualified attorney; III - joint effort of two duly qualified attorneys of the Company. § 5 The powers granted by the Cooperative through a mandate contract will only be valid and effective while the mandates of the Directors who sign the contract instruments are in force. §6 The term of office of the Executive Board will be 4 years and will coincide with that of the Board of Directors, and the nominees will remain in office until their successors take office. §7 Members of the Executive Board They must, whenever requested by the board, participate in meetings of the Board of Directors, in order to provide clarifications on management aspects. §8 In the event of a vacancy in any position on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint a replacement, who will serve the remainder of the term. §9º The members of the Executive Board, after approval of their appointment by the Central Bank of Brazil, will be invested in their positions through terms of investiture drawn up in the Executive Board Minutes Book. Art.49 To be able to hold the position of Director, candidates must meet the following conditions: Classification of information: Internal Use I - meet the requirements described in art. 42, items I to VIII and XV to XVIII, as well as § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 6 and 7 of art. 42; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the activities inherent, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V – meet complementary systemic requirements when provided for in regulations. Art. 50. The Executive Board is responsible for: I - operationally managing the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and Sicredi's corporate guidelines and strategies; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in processes legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic and financial state of the Company, in compliance with the provisions of these Bylaws; III - appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. Mandate instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out acts specific and for a determined period, except for those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indefinite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, observing the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the alienation or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement internal control standards for operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce the notes and technical guidelines of audit and internal controls, aiming at safety and respect for legislation and Sicredi’s internal regulations; Classification of information: Internal Use XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII – be responsible for all other activities inherent to the Cooperative’s ordinary administration; XIV - Decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members. Art. 51. The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others: I – The Executive Director: a) ensure the implementation of the Cooperative's strategic, financial and investment planning, as well as monitor its execution; b) supervise the operations and administrative activities of Sicredi Expansão and enforce compliance with decisions of the Board of Directors; c) implement actions of interest to the Cooperative; d) convene and preside over meetings of the Executive Board; e) coordinate the preparation of the financial report to the Board of Directors, at the end of the fiscal year, for presentation to the General Assembly, accompanied by half-yearly balance sheets, statements of net surpluses or losses determined and the opinion of the Fiscal Council; f) together with the Business Director or Director of Operations, sign balance sheets and statements of surpluses and losses, loan and financing contracts and other documents pertinent to the administration and management of Sicredi Expansão; g) apply penalties that are decided by the Board of Directors or General Assemblies; h) monitor the performance of the Executive Board and executives of Sicredi Expansão in light of the objectives and goals defined for the Company; i) supervise all Management acts of the entity and carry out other duties that the Board of Directors and/or Internal Regulations confer upon it; j) carry out the deliberations of the Board of Directors regarding the general guidance of the company's business and resolve omitted cases, together with the Business Director or Operations Director. II – The Operations Director: a) prepare internal regulations and rules for consideration by the Board of Directors; b) coordinate the development of activities social; c) advise the Executive Director on matters within his area; d) together with the Executive Director or Business Director, sign balance sheets and statements of surpluses and losses, loan contracts and Classification of information: Internal Use, financing and other documents pertinent to the administration and management of Sicredi Expansão; e) resolve omitted cases, together with the Executive Director; f) prepare and respond for the implementation of planning tactical for product and service portfolios, based on the guidelines of systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; g) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; h) respond to and monitor the execution of all budgets, including rural credit, as well as their liabilities; i) respond for the execution of the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the deliberations of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors; j) carry out other duties that the Board of Directors and/or Internal Regulations confer upon it. III – The Business Director: a) coordinate Sicredi Expansão’s financial operations; b) defer, within the limits established by the Board of Directors, for its jurisdiction, general credit operations, as provided for in the Internal regulations; c) carry out activities related to financial functions; d) advise the Executive Director on matters within his area; e) together with the Executive Director or Operations Director, sign balance sheets and statements of surpluses and losses, loan and financing contracts and other documents pertinent to the administration and management of Sicredi Expansão; f) resolve omitted cases, together with the Executive Director; g) develop other duties that the Board of Directors and/or Internal Regulations confer on it. IV – The Regional Director: a) participate in the definition and execution of the objectives and goals of the Cooperative agencies within the scope of their region; b) Monitor and respond to the fulfillment of business goals within the scope of its region, with observance and obedience to internal and external regulations, paying attention to mitigating the risks foreseen in Sicredi's systemic policy and recommendations the Board of Directors and Executive Board of the Cooperative; c) Monitor and respond to compliance with the budget foreseen for its region, fulfilling its forecasts and striving for the rationalization of expenses and optimization of revenues, complying with the guidelines of systemic pricing and the Cooperative; d) Monitor the People Management policy within your region, actively participating in planned performance assessments, suggesting actions and reporting to the Classification of information: Internal Use Executive Board All demands relating to the staff, for decision purposes; e) Participate, when called upon, in meetings of the Board of Directors, in order to provide accounts and clarifications on matters related to its Board of Directors; f) Develop other duties that the Board of Directors or the Executive Board assigns to it. § 1º It is prohibited for any of the members of the Executive Board to practice acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, allowing the granting of endorsements, guarantees and other guarantees, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 The deliberations on actions and other substantial occurrences at the Executive Board meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 52. The Executive Board will hold ordinary weekly and extraordinary meetings, whenever necessary, deliberating validly, as long as more than half of its current members are present. Single paragraph. Extraordinary meetings will be held whenever called by the Executive Director and also by half of the other directors. Art. 53 In the event of vacancy, absence or temporary impediment of any director, the Board of Directors will be responsible for appointing his replacement, in accordance with these Bylaws, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, it may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days. Art. 54. To exercise the position of director, it is necessary to dedicate the time necessary to fully execute the services of the Cooperative, with the exercise of the position of director of the Cooperative being incompatible with the performance of other functions or similar professional activities, except in cases in which the Cooperative has an interest, at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Art. 55. Directors are prohibited from intervening in the study, approval, control or liquidation of business, or loans that they eventually intend or contract with the Cooperative and, directly or indirectly, are interested in Companies in which they have control or participation greater than 10% (ten percent) of the share capital or, in whose management they participate or have participated, up to 02 (two) years immediately prior to the position. Art. 56 The Board of Directors and directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1 Administrators who give rise to insufficient liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of Information Classification: Internal Use duties, determine losses to the Company, they will respond directly, with their own assets, for compensation for the damages. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote accountability of the Board of Directors and directors whose actions or omissions, as per the previous paragraph, result in any of the results referred to therein. CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 57 The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing , regarding the conditions and requirements for candidacy and the exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 42 and its § 1, both of this statute. § 1 The members of the Fiscal Council will have a term of office of 02 (two) years. § 2 The election of the members of the Fiscal Council requires a complete slate(s), independent and unrelated to the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in § 1 of the art. 42 of this Statute. § 3º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of the authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 4 The elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 58 The Supervisory Board meets, ordinarily, once a month and, extraordinarily, when necessary. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and directing the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of their members and at the request of the Assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. Art. 59. In the event of a temporary absence, or in the event of a vacancy, the effective counselors will be replaced by alternates, in accordance with the order established in the election minutes. § 1 If there are 4 (four) or more vacancies in the Collegiate, the President of the Board of Directors will call the General Assembly for due completion, within 30 (thirty) days. Page 25 of 27 § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 42, § 5, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for absences of its members. Classification of information: Internal Use § 3 In the event that the advisor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, must submit a request to resign from the elected position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of the position becoming vacant. Art. 60. Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and Sicredi's internal regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, services and actions of administrators; II - control assiduously monitor financial transactions, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the management accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, the dissenting votes, as well as compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the General Assembly, being able to consult internal and external auditors to provide necessary information to the performance of its functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the Central auditors and the independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and other systemic deliberative bodies, formally established, in relation to strategic - corporate matters of interest to all individual cooperatives and respective centers that are members of Sicredi; VII - report to the Board of Directors the conclusions of its work, warning about irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the General Assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the institution's risk scenario, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the General Assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the Cooperative; X - convene the General Assembly, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses arising, for the irregular acts and facts of the administration of the Information Classification: Internal Cooperative Use, whose practice results from its proven omission, carelessness, lack of accuracy, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the General Assembly. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote accountability directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. §3 The deliberations of the Fiscal Council will consist of reports, the main topics of which will be transcribed, even in summary, in the respective minutes, drawn up in a specific book and signed at the end of the meetings by the supervisors present. CHAPTER IX BALANCE SHEET, SURPLUS, LOSSES AND FUNDS Art. 61. The general balance sheet, including the comparison between income and expenses, plus depreciation, will be drawn up semi-annually on June 30th and December 31st. § 1 The percentages of 25% (twenty-five percent) for the Reserve Fund and 5% (five percent) for the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund will be deducted from the surpluses determined at the end of each year. § 2 The percentage allocated to the reserve fund will be increased by 1% (one percent) each year, up to a limit of 40%. § 3 The net surpluses or losses of each semester, determined in accordance with this article, will be prorated among the members in proportion to the interest and commissions they have paid and the operations they have carried out with the Cooperative, after approval of the balance sheet by the Assembly, except for decisions other than this. § 4 Losses incurred in each semester will be apportioned between members in proportion to the interest and commissions paid, after approval of the balance sheet by the Ordinary General Assembly, in proportion to the operations carried out with the Cooperative. § 5 Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated by the monetary authority and Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, subject to the apportionment system provided for in this Statute, must be transformed, until the necessary limit, in new shares of members' capital or allocated additionally to the reserve fund itself. § 6 They may be allocated to the reserve fund, before determining mandatory destinations, donations without specific destination; § 7 Loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations, will be automatically reverted to the reserve fund. § 8º It is possible, upon decision of the General Assembly, to compensate, through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of the losses verified in the year ended. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 62. The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible among the members. Art. 63. The services to be provided by the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund may be carried out through an agreement with other entities. CHAPTER Fiscal Council of 3 (three) members to carry out its liquidation: I - when the General Assembly so decides, provided that the members, totaling a minimum number required in these Statutes, are not willing to ensure its continuity; II - due to the change in its legal form; III - by reducing the minimum number of members or the minimum share capital if, until the subsequent General Assembly, held within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, they are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of its activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. §1 The General Assembly, within the limits of its powers, may at any time remove the liquidators and members of the Fiscal Council, designating their replacements. §2 In all acts and operations, liquidators must use the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression (in liquidation). §3 The liquidation process can only be initiated after consent of the Central Bank of Brazil. Art. 65. The liquidation of the Company will comply with its own legal and regulatory rules. CHAPTER CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 67. The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the day starting and including the end day. Art. 68. The rules issued by the Sicredi System are mandatory and automatically incorporated into the Sicredi Expansão regulations. Classification of information: Internal Use Art. 69. Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with legislation and cooperative principles, after consulting, when appropriate, the governing bodies. Maceió/AL, October 22, 2022 . Edvaldo Maia Lopes Ferreira Filho Chairman of the Board of Directors Ricardo Gonçalves Tavares Executive Director Maurílio da Silva Ferraz Operations Director Lenildo Amorim da Silva Business Director