COOPERATIVA DE CREDITO CENTRO LESTE — SICREDI CENTRO LESTE RS CNPJ n.'-' 88.471024/0001-70 CALL NOTICE CORE ASSEMBLY Digital Modality 0 President of the Credit Cooperative Centro Leste — Sicredi Centro Leste RS, in the use of the powers conferred upon him article 59, § 29 of the Belonging Regulation, calls on the members of all l'lCICle0S of the Cooperative, to participate in the CORE ASSEMBLY to be held on November 8, 2023, at 7 (nineteen) hours, at digital modality, remotely, transmitted live from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Rua Saldanha Marinho, n.9 825, Bairro Centro, in the municipality of Cachoeira do Sul/RS, to all members, simultaneously, using the Belonging Tool*. Members who are unable to participate on the date that the meeting will be broadcast live, will have the opportunity to present their vote, also digitally, on the same platform, between November 8, 2023, starting at 20 (twenty) hours, and November 9, 2023, voting ending at 5 (seventeen) hours. AGENDA I. Election of NCICIEO Delegate and Substitutes exclusively for the new NCICIQO 02 of the Butié Service Unit, for the purposes of representing the Center's members at the General Assemblies of the Cooperative, according to art. 16 of the Bylaws and in accordance with the Pertencer Program Regulations; II. For all NL'Jcleos, define the positioning (vote) of each Nucleus in relation to the matters that will be the subject of the Extraordinary General Assembly, including the Joint EGM, regarding the incorporation of the Cooperativa de Crédito, Savings and Investment Alto Rio Grande MG — Sicredi Credigrande MG by the Cooperativa de Crédito Centro Leste — Sicredi Centro Leste RS, which will be presented by the Delegates at these Assemblies, in accordance with § 49 of art. 16 of the Bylaws: MATERIALS OF THE EXTRAORDINARY INDIVIDUAL GENERAL MEETING SCHEDULED FOR 11/11/2023: 1. Incorporation of the Cooperative of Credit, Savings and Investment Alto Rio Grande MG — Sicredi Credigrande MG by Cooperativa de Crédito Centro Leste — Sicredi Centro Leste RS; 2. Indication of names to form the Mixed Committee that will carry out the studies necessary for incorporation. MATERIALS OF THE JOINT EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING SCHEDULED FOR 09/12/2023: Classification of information: Unrestricted Use 1. If the Opinion of the Mixed Committee is favorable to the incorporation, approval of the incorporation of the Cooperative of Credit, Savings and Investment Alto Rio Grande MG — Sicredi Credigrande MG by Cooperativa de Crédito Centro Leste — Sicredi Centro Leste RS, under the terms of article 59 and paragraph (under Law no. 9 5764/71, to authorize the delegates vote on this matter at the Extraordinary Joint General Assembly. 2. If the Opinion of the Joint Committee is favorable and the proposed incorporation is approved, consideration of the reform and consolidation of the Bylaws of the incorporating cooperative to authorize delegates to vote on this matter at the Extraordinary Joint General Assembly, comprising: change of corporate name, expansion of the area of ​​action, change in the number of branches, change in the composition of the Board of Directors, extinction of the body and positions of the Fiscal Council, as well as well as other changes to devices given the consequences of the incorporation and due to the extinction of the Fiscal Council. 3. If the Mixed Committee's Opinion is favorable and the incorporation is approved proposal, consideration of the election for the recomposition of the Board of Directors of the incorporating cooperative, to authorize the delegates to vote on this matter at the Extraordinary Joint General Assembly. 4. If the Opinion of the Mixed Committee is favorable and the proposed incorporation is approved, setting the value of the fees and benefits for the President, Vice-President and Attendance Certificates of the Councilors, to authorize the delegates to vote on this matter at the General Assembly Joint Extraordinary. S. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Cachoeira do Sul, RS, October 27, 2023. PAULO ALEX FALC/7\O President OBSERVATIONS: 1. * | instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi. com.br[assemblies by registering and identifying themselves with their CPF and password, including the legal representative of a legal entity member (if applicable), on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. 2. The Core Assembly will be held in digital format, the modality of which is supported by the Pertercer Regulation, in its art. 59, § 89. 3. Informing members interested in participating in the election process for coordinator of nL'Jc|and registrations can be made from this publication until 06/ll/2023, at the Butia' Service Unit. Information classification: Unrestricted Use