COOPERATIVA DE CRl§D|TO CENTRO LESTE - SICREDI CENTRO LESTE RS CNPJ n.9 88.471.024/0001-70 CALL NOTICE ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Digital Modality 0 President of Cooperativa de Crédito Centro Leste — Sicredi Centro Leste RS, using the duties conferred on it by article 14 of the Bylaws, summons the core delegates elected in the respective Assemblies, which on this date total 48 (forty-eight), to meet in a GENERAL ASSEMBLY ORDIN/-'\R|A, to be held at March 25, 2023, at 07 (seven) hours, in first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the delegates, in second call, at 08 (eight) hours, with the presence of half of the delegates one more, and, in the third and final call, at 09 (nine) hours, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) delegates. The assembly will be held digitally, transmitted from the headquarters of the Cooperative, located at Rua Saldanha Marinho, n.9 825, Bairro Centro, in this city, for all delegates, simultaneously, using the Pertencer* Tool accessed on the website www.sicredi.com.br[assembly to deliberate on the following: AGENDA 1. Presentation of accounts for the year ending on December 31, 2022, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheet for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of leftovers; d) audit opinion; e) opinion of the Supervisory Board. 2. Disposal of leftovers. 3. Election of the members of the Board of Directors Administration. 4. Setting the value of fees, bonuses, benefits and variable remuneration | for the President and attendance/honorary ballots for Vice-President and members of the Board of Directors. 5. Approval of the Remuneration Standard for Statutory Members. 6. Approval of the Administrator Succession Policy. 7. Other matters of interest to the membership (non-deliberative nature). Cachoeira do Sul, RS, March 10, 2023. Paulo Alex Falcao President NOTES: 1. The Assembly will be held in digital format, the modality of which is supported by art. 17- A of Complementary Law n'—' 130/2009, as well as in the DREI Normative Instruction n.9 81, of June 10, 2020. 2. The proposals for the Statutory Remuneration Standard and the Administrator Succession Policy meet —will be available at the Cooperative’s headquarters. 3. *Instructions for participation and voting in the Belonging Tool: delegates must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.brgassembleias, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly . The digital mechanism used will allow delegates to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action. 4. The Assembly will be recorded electronically.