72.5 Sicredi @ Relatério AnuaLda Sicredi Ceﬂtro Oeste Pawista 7///////////////////////////////////////// ////////////////////A Content Presentation Word from the Presidents Word from the Executive Director Advisors Results Expansion Awards Awards Opinion of the Fiscal Council Financial statements Distribution of Surplus @ Tap on the subject you want Care in the Pandemic I Cooperate with the Local Economy Endomarketing Socio-environmental responsibility Development of Cooperativism 20 Years of the Cooperative Agencies Social Networks Institutional Video Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Presentation Another year we have the pleasure of sharing with our more than 31 thousand members a summary of the main actions carried out in 2020 by Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista through this report. We bring transparency to our activities by presenting the work developed by our 13 agencies distributed in the Center—0este Paulista through the our more than 215 employees, who, even amid the uncertainties imposed by the new Coronavfrus pandemic, dedicated themselves intensely to delivering the best results to associates. Good reading. Coordination: Nutﬁ Cm/ari —Advisor to Cumunicugzin 2 Marketmg Maria Laura Rufuttn —Assrrent to Cumunicugzin, Marketmg and Development. d0 Couperatiwsmu Production: Canal da lha Gurlherme Radrigues — Drretnr Gem! Tutyar1eAruu/'0 — Diugrumugﬁo and Edigziu Suzanu Mara Juliﬁo — Journalist Res,I:1onsu’vel— MTB 43389 Support: Anderson I\/lrlarm —AuxiHar Us Comuniiagﬁo, Marketing 2 Desem/. of Cuoperutivism I\/lurceltu Zanluihi — Assessnr Us Desenvnlvemento do Coaperutrvismn 005 Word from the President We arrived, max": once, at a moment Clinic in our Cooperative: the assemblies, And, again, We arrived with good news. The first of them is that we are iuntos at this point — a different "iuntos", but iuntos. Another great news is the results of our business, which doesn't stop To grow. In 5 years, it increased fivefold, going from R$2.2 million in 2016 to more than R$12 million in 2020, despite the challenges posed by the pandemic. All this because you trusted us and, for you, we remain steadfast. In this year of pandemic, we looked for ways to hold our assemblies so that care for each person's health was 0 points (have. Thus, we arrived at the digital model, not as warm as our last assemblies were, which, in fact, had par ' ipacao record, with more than 5 thousand people, but safe and reliable, where you, as a member, can monitor the rendering of Accounts that we will carry out, get 05 coordinating representatives from your core and vote on the agendas such as allocation of results, presentation of the account balance, among others . Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista In fact, in these assemblies you will be able to remember everything we did throughout 2020, from the prevention measures taken in our branches, such as the use of masks, alcohol gel and relay collaborators, to the actions promoted to provide support in these challenging times, after all, our purpose of building, together, a more prosperous society in the Center-West of São Paulo cannot stop. This is a commitment we have to our community. We translated this commitment into the more than 700 associates impacted by the action "I cooperate with the Local Economy", which sought to support entrepreneurs by offering, free of charge, education and promotional material in partnership with Sebrae and Canal da Ilha‘ Or even, in the more than 3.5 tons of food, hygiene and cleaning items and 400 people treated with blood bags, numbers resulting from day C — the day to cooperate. The more than 4 thousand people reached by our financial education workshops are also part of this translation, after all, a more prosperous society is built with education. It is cooperativism with a focus on the role of women entrepreneurs in the face of the pandemic and the Young Innovators Award which, in its second edition, completely digital, was carried out in partnership with CEU — Center for University Entrepreneurship at Unesp Bauru and Sebrae, with the aim of recognizing, encouraging , train and connect young people to themes linked to the essence of Sicredi, such as cooperation, innovation and citizenship, contemplating the UN's sustainable development objectives. Furthermore, our mission in Haiti, held in 2019, received recognition from the World Council of Credit Cooperatives (WOCCU) for the social impact achieved in the Caribbean country. This was the first international mission of the A Uniao Faz a Vida (PUFV) Program, and it was carried out by our cooperative. All these actions fill us with pride and came to, in 2020, crown our 20th anniversary, celebrated on November 28th, a Saturday, with a Live that, in addition to being commemorative, brought solidarity and hope, more once, for the children of Haiti. All of this was done by you, member, who believed in our cooperative. You, in fact, have always been the focus of our cooperative, since its founding, 20 years ago, until today. Thank you for walking with us and, even more, for making us stronger and stronger. We hope for an even better 2021, with a promising future. Take care of yourself for us and we will be here to take care of you. ll Our purpose of See you soon! /w'6)!aJ4.£ Joéo Alberto Salvi President Building, together, a more prosperous society cannot stop. This is a commitment that we have 007 in the Center—West of São Paulo m with our community. 008 2020 was a really different year. We started with everything. Our assemblies brought together more than 5 thousand people, deciding and thinking about the future that lay ahead of us — without knowing, however, what awaited us: the Coronavirus pandemic. Our purpose, to build a more prosperous society in the Faulist Center-West, made each felt more and more when we looked at the community and knew we couldn't stop. And we don't stop. Given this entire scenario, cooperation made the difference. We raised more than R$51 million in savings, reaching more than R$BOO million in managed resources. NLimers that strengthened our cooperative and allowed us to grant more than R$100 million in new credits, with lines that range from production to the point of sale, making dreams come true. All these numbers corroborated the move towards our long-term guidelines, goals for 2022 and 2030. Our Consortiums also allowed our members to dream. There were more than R$27 million in sales. And we never stop offering peace of mind to everyone with our Insurance portfolio. Safety was also the watchword in our agencies: We followed all Covid-19 prevention protocols with the use of masks, alcohol gel and divided employees into groups, taking turns working remotely 2 in person at the branch, reducing the risk of Contagion without compromising service to you, associates, and business owners. In fact, our Employees carried out numerous actions that, in addition to financial solutions, also provided support to our associates. Among them, is the “I cooperate with the local economy” movement, which gave visibility to associated entrepreneurs, helping them to overcome challenges. In a partnership with Sebrae, we offered 10 hours of online content on marketing, sales and financial education, in addition to Cards and Videos, in partnership with Canal da Ilha, Word of the Executive Director, a production company from Bauru, 2 which were posted on our social networks. All free of charge, impacting more than 700 members. Gratitude to you, collaborator, for carrying out our purpose. Gratitude to you, associate, for believing in this purpose. Ending a year like this with a satisfaction rate above 79% makes us believe that, in 2021, we will go even further, Building a more prosperous society in the Center—0este Paulista. Ildo Wilde Executive Director Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista O09 && J Join Alberto Salvi Ricardo Viegas Berriel Carlos Henrique dos Carlos Alberto President Vice-President Santos Giaferri Vice-President Councilor iﬁ Board of Directors Douglas Manfré Enidelcio de Jesus Francisco Venditto 105° ““E”5t ° 5ﬂ||"A|"|3 Advisor Sartori Soares C0T'59”19“'0 Advisor Advisor Join Bosco Martins losé Eduardo lose' Octacilio da Silvio Renato Dias Pinto Tomasini Pernalnlruco Silveira Dttoboni Counselor Counselor Counselor Losé Counselor Carlos ForIna'gio Julio César Gonsales Rafael Marcluioni Effective Counselor Luvizutto Effective Counselor Effective Counselor £sr*'~ Claudio Alberto Nilton Eduardo Arildo Luciano Gerlin Calnesclui Guerrei rn da Silva Counselor1 ° Substitute Counselor 2nd Alternate Counselor 3“Alternate Supervisory Board Results Z020 Consércios e Seguros In In February and July, Life Insurance campaigns were carried out and the results were 400 and 700 in insurance claims respectively. In June we reached another sales record, collecting more than R$700 thousand reais in insurance premiums and in November we reached R$12 million in consortium sales. Credit We exceeded the 2020 annual target of R$62.3 million and delivered R$102.8 million in net increase. i.e. 165% of the target. % We currently have a Credit Portfolio of R$371.4 million. @ Public and Private Consigned: R$ 22.7 million released in 2020; 8%’ Rural: R$11.7 million between Costs and Investments; \ I / ﬂ Photovoltaic Energy: R$ 2.2 million released in 2020. Payment Methods In October. we reached R$1 billion in receipts via invoices and card machines. Investment We surpassed the R$50 million mark in savings capture in November. totaling more than R$800 million in managed resources and more than 31 thousand members. 1 65% of the annual target Total Resources (millions of RS) @CC 2018 2020 Credit Operations (millions of RS) @L@ 2018 2020 Associates (thousands) @</GD 2018 2020 Net Equity (millions of RS) ®C/O 2018 2020 Net Result (millions of RS) CDC/GD 2018 2020 Numbers 0012 Expanding our service network to an increasing number of cities and being able to plant the seed of cooperation in these places is the essence of our work. which we dedicate ourselves to every day. Ildo Wllde Executive Director A"— SiCI'E-di Centro Oeste Paulista Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista rm W' 'M 0013 Brotas With a modern and innovative layout, Sicredi installs in 2021 in the municipality of Brotas, an agency. The flexible structure /sica has 637 m2 and an innovative project that will provide members with a coworking space in addition to all the benefits of products and financial services with differentiated service. The inauguration is scheduled to take place in the first half of 2021 and will be attended by the authorities and directors of Sicredi Center Oeste Paulista. Pompeia New agencies In addition to Brotas, the cooperative Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista is expected to inaugurate and reopen new facilities in Herculandia, Adamantina, Pompeia and within the new Unimed hospital in Jatfl, and there are also studies for the implementation of agencies in the municipalities of Lins and Rancharia. This expansion will allow us to leverage new businesses, expand the number of associates and offer jobs, which encourage the local economy and the growth of these communities, and with the arrival of Sicredi they will have the possibility of accessing financial services and products, in addition to participating in financial education events. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi ranked 43rd among the 50 largest banks that are part of the guide. Furthermore, it stood out with 25th place in the Rural Credit ranking, ranked 5th in Credit for Medium Companies, rising one position in in relation to last year's ranking and other highlights. Sxcredi Center Oeste Pauhsta In the Epoca Negocios 360° yearbook, Sicredi occupied 953rd place in the general ranking. In the Banks sector ranking, it came in 5th, standing out within the sector with 1st place in Corporate Governance and 3rd place in Financial Performance. The institution also ranked 73rd in People. Sicredi ranked 69th among listed companies. The institution was also in '|3rd place among the 20 largest of the finance area. To top it off, Sicredi also occupies 7th place among the 20 largest in Net Profit and also 15th in Equity Profitability, among others. In the edition of Valor Economico magazine, Sicredi came 2nd in the award that highlights the 20 largest banks. It also ranked 75th in the ranking of the Largest in Credit Operations, Total Deposits, Net Profit and among those with the Best Operational Result. The premium refers to financial agents and is prepared by BNDES. Sicredi was highlighted in 1st place in the following categories: - PF Indirect Operations - Federal Government Agricultural Programs - Pronaf Investimento - Inovagro - Moderagro - Pronamp Investimento Sicredi Cent: 0 Oeste Paulista WYCUP — World CouncilYoung Credit Union People 0 highlighted in 2020 was the recognition achieved by Sicredi member, Vinicius Mattia, aged 26, with the project "Family Farming and Sustainable Food", which was among the three best initiatives presented in this year's edition. As a reward, Mattia won a scholarship that includes participation in the 2021 World Conference of Credit Unions, which will be held in Scotland. At the time, Sicredi presented six other cases. The members of the mission carried out by Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista in Haiti, in 2019, received, on September 22, recognition from the World Council of Credit Cooperatives (WOCCU) for their social impact. reached in the Caribbean country. This was the first international mission of the A Uniao Faz a Vida (PUFV) Program. Best Companies to Work For For the ninth consecutive year, Sicredi is among the "150 Best Companies to Work For" in Brazil. The list is the result of research carried out by Vocé S/A magazine, from Editora Abril, in partnership with Fundagao Instituto Administragao (FIA), with more than 250 thousand workers from around 500 companies and institutions, including Sicredi, in the five regions of the country. Top Asset In 2020, the ranking classified Sicredi in Resources from Open Pensions: the institution recorded the third highest growth in the last 12 months and the fifth best performance in the last six months. It is also worth mentioning that, in the general classification, Sicredi once again occupied 18th place among the more than 140 resource managers evaluated in Brazil, with more than R$32.8 billion in resources under management. Top 100 Open Startups In 2020, Sicredi was featured for the first time in this ranking that references the 100 companies most open to innovation in Brazil. 0 100 Open Startups is a platform sponsored by global companies that, together, evaluate and classify startups from around the world. The most attractive startups are selected by large companies to collaborate in the development of high-impact innovations for society and tern at lame vole - storem incimus' tem. I will make you cry, but because you know us somewhere else when they are praying, give us a great deal of pain and pain that you have raised. Illorest ditiorisit, Hlorento delupistrum everum entiur, sunt e><- plamet raestid that (one in pain Llabore runtento and 'like' itself' I will give, eat, everyhitlique no one's fault cut off- tun tem and Lame volestor we incimus, tern. Ficabor motor a pero quiatius We know you atibust, they are praying with their knees, they have greatly offended us, give us pain and aborumquaEveLest\' be authenie niendus 003 Dam, etur, everyhitlique no one's fault cut off - tun tem and Lame volestore we incimus, tern. I will stay with you because we are not aware of you, they are praying for you, you are giving us a great deal of pain and pain, and you are going to be abhorrent. I will fix the motor from the pear because we are atibust with nossitaspe, they are praying for us, we are greatly offended by the pain and suffering that EveLest\' authenie niendus be Demonstragées Contébeis I N .' Ille him hil caught some kind of quation. A lamb that I had abhorred as a pleasure, do not stop me from getting it. veLect0 and pleasure mourns or hilLend animpore to use as you are molessuntions right sapel leads ma><- imust than, as those who serve in motion and, the whole estrus hear I am, CLIS vetesciis ipsustia senililla arumet ream recaboresdt eosa and she ends the reESerate but and wants to prerum fadati He will repulse the ofﬁc he acquires with enthusiasm, his acid will be soured by the tatquostinci dol0rehen—I will give the ipicatiorim to whom, with which bemmverumqui ipitem. L0 Cust I choose but pleasure mourns, or hillend I take to use you as a nuisance the right is wise to lead the most important than, as those who are officiating mom and, the whole of the estrus are heard, who will bring back the matter of the old age and bring back the matter of the eosa and end the reEserate but and vows to repel the offense with the incitement of the fads, he says to flee who has crawled out ofOv\'d who are those who want to slander and undestinate everyone but offend that Uganda feels that there is little intflffic covered, which I throw out as if I am a slave, who will marry some or a few dens pamntiam, optior serum fugia nonemporerit qui volorum aces veLlab0 rionet at ad qui ut a pain Pandemic Care With the new Coronavirus pandemic, the Sicredi Cent Oeste Paulista cooperative is taking a series of measures to protect employees and members. There was a 9% increase in the number of collaborators and 1/3 of employees remained working from home with a new plan for working via Home Office. 05 municipal decrees were followed and respected, with the use of masks, Frequent cleaning of cash register keypads, Wcool ge\ distributed throughout the location, access control according to the number established in each branch and temperature measurement, in addition to signage and materials. a\ informative. Thinking about a financial reorganization of our members in the challenging time caused by the pandemic, we extended more than R$ 8.9 million in additional installments in 2020, providing more convenience and security to our members. We release credit with special interest rates for those taken with investment guarantee, where the remuneration of these P c,=”ng35'Ea.m.%.m', n(3< fPﬂ'7(J§ a comp/' om/"550 with you. invested resources also had a differentiated return; for the Legal Entity public we made available the extension of installments for non-paying members, reduction /Vlesmo C1 drstlzninl, in the value of TED fees, payment of Emergency Aid, '” °55~"""“"59'7“9 ['>L£*VH(!(/H BNDES operations focused on Working Capital, campaign to update registration via 'B and App, PESE (Payment Fund financing), emergency line R$ 1.5 million freed with around 1,500 jobs preserved and 57 companies served, Genteque PRONAMPE (emergency working capital): RS 89 million released :::f:ra' for 230 companies from different segments and preserving around 471; 5,000 jobs. In addition, we reﬂate automatic insurance renewals to make day-to-day life easier 63 guarantee peace of mind for our associates. I Cooperate with Economla Local Initiative helps entrepreneurs in times of pandemic and becomes a national case To stimulate economic development through support for entrepreneurs Wocais, Sicredi Wancou, at the height of the pandemic of the new COYOFIEVI/|'L,|S, the movement “I Cooperate with the Local Economy". Improving the action, Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista went to\e/m, looking for practical solutions that could support 05 traders who found themselves in a It was a very difficult situation to keep his business active and he ended up becoming a Case in nfvet naCona\. The action was a way of cooperating with its entrepreneurial associates, giving them the opportunity to publicize their trade, through a Whatsapp card and a 30-second video to be shared on social media, produced in partnership with Canat da Hha , following the Enfrentar JuntoSSS course, in partnership with Sebrae, with 10 hours of online lectures on marketing, management and education ﬁnancial. A wide range of products and services participated, such as Wojas, beauty salons, clinics, nursing shops, workshops, magic schools, confectioners, artisans, among others. The initiative supported approximately 700 Sicredi members. The project guaranteed small entrepreneurs an important tool to increase the visibility of their businesses in times of pandemic, which is digital marketing and, best of all, at no cost to the member. With this support, COODBFEUVB promoted a boost in the commercialization of local products and services, fulfilling its development role in the communities where it is in need. This project is very special\ because it opened the mind to new knowledge and exchange of experiences. A push for us not to give up, not to be afraid. The movement brings this important strengthening to 05 small businesses. It encourages us to have courage, move and perform better, making small businesses or commerce \hollow\ more known. Lucimara Brave Agenorwlexra 350 Participants of EnfrentarJuntoSSS +700 Videos and Cards produced 190 Users of the Sicredi Conecta APP Free of charge. Hundreds of members received support to promote their ventures by publishing videos and cards on the official Facebook page of the Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista cooperative. Agﬁes ​​value employees and associates on commemorative dates M525 Father's Day Endomarketing B QUIZ. In this V ' ‘§_‘ we want to know who ‘f“ best knows 05 colleagues t!\ » \ g -L. I IIIIHIILH' ' llinfll CC'l'lT,ICr O: Benefiting all agencies, in addition to the Regional Headquarters, the cooperative installed 8 electricity generating stations that, together, produce more than 30 thousand KWh per month' This load is sufficient to supply 120 homes with 4 people, with an average consumption of 250 KWh/month. With the action, R$178,000 were saved and 134 trees were saved. Our cooperative was certiﬁed by Ecoﬁnance Negocios rrmmnrn and Biofflica for neutralizing Col emissions through a project in an RPPN in Bocaiﬂva do Sul (Paraná), in the Atlantic Forest biome, and in the REDD Project, in Jari (Paraná). The initiative directly contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 'I3 (Action against global climate change) and 'IS (Life on Earth) which reinforces our commitment to the environment, As participants in the Global CompactZO30 'Ages promote the cooperativism in communities Youth Committee Online events that took place in the first and second semester, aimed to develop individual skills necessary to navigate the moment of crisis and post-crisis, as well as how to build the future of the cooperative system in Brazil. Young people engaged in the cooperative cause participated in activities through digital platforms. ' Women's Committee Before the pandemic, the Women's Committee organized in the city of Pederneiras, in partnership with Céunara Municipal, an event about the role of women in society and the issue of abuse against the female public. In addition, a Financial Education workshop was organized for 150 people. In Bauru, a lecture on women's health care was held, in partnership with Mago aria and collaborators from the agendas. Entrepreneurial Woman Seminar In 2020, the event brought the theme “Real Women” through an online chat about female entrepreneurship and cooperativism with a focus on the role of entrepreneurial woman facing Ea pandenﬂa. An event held in partnership with CEU — Centro de Entrepreneurship Unlversita/rlo of Unesp Bauru and Sebrae, aimed to recognize, encourage, empower and connect young people to themes linked to the essence of Slcredl, such as cooperation, innovation and citizenship, covering the 17 objectives of UN sustainable development. Already in its second edition, the event was 100% digital and included the registration of 19 promising ideas which, after a careful evaluation and several phases, culminated in the 3 major finalists. The first place “+ Ecos + Pontos" developed the project with the creation of an application that works together with a smart collection pan and that facilitates the separation and segmentation of waste for recycling. Both the App and the collection pan had lectures on recycling. Second place “Trllhos”, developed a democratization technology project, based on studies in Bauru cooperatives, surveying their needs, studying legislation and a market niche to be explored, the mission was born: empowering cooperatives and members with disruptive solutions, through sustainable processes and valuing work. The third placed “Mercado Tera”, is a virtual market that seeks to connect the local producer with the population, commercializing unfinished foods, products that would otherwise be discarded due to their appearance, + + but they are great for consumption. Food that would be wasted because it did not meet aesthetic standards was selected and sold at a lower value; " ' That of market value. Events were held before (in-person) and during (on-line) the pandemic. The Crescer classes participated in certified cooperative training, which has the objective of inserting members into the universe of cooperativism, totaling more than 350 participants. The formation of advisors, where the new members of the supervisory board participated in online training. . ‘Q I ‘.- ,1 5; Solidarity and Financial Education are part of development actions Financial Education To provide information and improve people's relationship with their finances and with the aim of disseminating Cooperativism, Financial Education events were held. The activities reached more than 4 thousand people during the month of 2020, with the majority of meetings taking place in online format due to the pandemic. . Dla C Our C-Day actions involved collecting 3 5 I food and hygiene materials, via the Sicredi Dams Conecta app, in addition to donating blood. In total, more than 3.5 tons of food, health and cleaning items were collected, in addition to benefiting more than 400 people with blood donations. Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista 0029 20th anniversary live A live in celebration of the cooperative's 20th anniversary, it brought excitement to employees and associates who followed the special attractions prepared for that date online. The 20 years of work towards the development of the cooperative make the directors proud who have seen significant growth in this period of two decades with an increase in the number of branches, the number of employees and financial results. Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista is one of 108 cooperatives affiliated to the Sicredi system. It currently has 13 branches in an area of operations that cover 84 municipalities in the Center-West Paulistar “This cooperative went through a challenging 2020, as did the entire market, but it continued to grow, both in results and size, and the main reason is this: the focus on the community and our associates", reinforces president Joao Alberto Salvi. Click on play and watch Sicredi's anniversary live Centro Oeste Paulista Sicredi in its entirety. Center Oeste Pau list We are very proud of the cooperative that we have built over these 20 years. Our expectation is to repeat this success in the coming decades. Joéo Alberto Salvi President 0030 20th anniversary campaign Wlﬁﬁﬁﬁlﬁo Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Promogiio . Promotional campaign gives members the opportunity to actively participate in the 20th anniversary celebrations. Focusing on the member, the cooperative is running a campaign, from 12/01/2020 to 05/31/2021, where prizes will be drawn such as 1 HB20S 0Km car, 2 Honda CG motorcycles, 14 savings accounts worth RS 2,000 each and more than 3,000 instant gifts' Members' participation takes place through coupons in accordance with what is purchased in products and services at Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista. Managers and all teams are available to associates for guidance and questions on how to receive coupons during business transactions. Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista has been promoting local development and spreading credit cooperatives in communities where it operates. With few founding members initially, the cooperative expanded its borders over the years and today has more than 31 thousand members, is present in 11 cities in the Center-West of São Paulo, with 14 branches and more than 200 employees. Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista An awards party was prepared to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista cooperative for its more than 31 thousand members. 7:.‘ Sicredi Prqmagﬁa / I Sicredi Center Oeste Pnulist Umofesm of premiums pflﬂ CDWIEWIDIDT is our university. For each product or 1 contracted service 1 nu mats coupons Vouchers-brlndes 1 H5205 Dkm 1 2 Honda ca 150 Fun 14 savings 112 R5 2 ml Mnls of 3 mu gifts lnsnmtﬂneas From ul/12/2020 are 3!/D5/Z021. Panlcipe 2 Don sane! 0031 mm. 7 ldnmznlmz Av. Santo Anténio, 297 (18) 3522-50 8 Our agency received recognition in the award A partnership with the city hall and municipal council\'pa\ "Highlights of And’, promoted by the lmpacto group to offer Consigned credit granting Cerca Comunicacao. of R3 3 million was one of the agency's most prominent negotiations in 2020. We were highlighted in the collection of funds for the institution hosting {doses “Lar dos Velhos” I 2020 was a year of many obstacles and Adamantina promoting solidarity . We also face countless challenges, our strength in the will to carry out financial education courses on—|Ine _ V _ and overcoming We could collaborate with the Community. Accepting changes and adapting were essential characteristics for us to face these obstacles and achieve our achievements. The expectations for improvements were great and our faith to continue was even greater. Already in 2021, the prospects are so much in the yearning for better days, now more experienced in the face of the new, that [nap is so new and increasingly stronger for us to follow, each one doing their part within our [airs and in society. " Marcos Peruchi Manager R. Agenor Meira. 12-8 (14) 3312-3200 Our agenda reaffirmed a partnership with Our agenda had great relevance in a Portuguese Beneﬁcénda for the opening of Accounts Central Campaign pg/Sp/my Where was highlighted amp"Va”d° still "W5 0 mime-"'° of a550dad°5 And among more than 700 agencies in the products Consércios and promoting new businesses for Credit Card professionals in the satellite area. Mars of 1000 people participated in the educational lectures financial resources were organized online for the agency, and on C-Day, the team of collaborators was involved in collecting food baskets to donate to needy families in Bauru. 2020, a year of a lot of learning. A very productive year where we need to reinvent ourselves to work from home and provide full support to our associates and also a year where we learned a lot to value Life. In 2021 we hope that this pandemic will be eradicated and vaccines can protect humanity and that it will be a very prosperous year‘ Jose’ Dsmar Manager ~;w..r.:..,.... R. Gustavo Maciel. 21-73 (14) 3161-3300 Among the actions to support the community were Financial Education classes and food collection for the World League of the Poor, promoted by the Diocese of Bauru. Our agency was highlighted in Commercial Credit in Centra\ PR/SP/RJ action and in the Cooperative's internal campaign in the first half of the year. In 2020, despite, unfortunately, Since the pandemic occurred that shook the world, Sicredi, as always in times of crisis, becomes successful, pioneering and the power of growth and resilience of this institution is impressive. And it was a very special year for our agency as we closed the year with almost R$400 thousand in net income. A year of struggle and achievement and we thank everyone. In 2021, we hope firstly for the pandemic to be cured and to continue developing, bringing more and more people into the cooperative segment and I am sure that Sicredi will continue to grow and so will our agency, offering an excellent service for HD5505 members. Rafael Simioni Manager !\ Av. Elyseu Lourengéo. 2 2 Brotas/SP The activities were started with a writer within the 2020 f°l Um W0 5'9 5'-lPe''3§50 For AClB (Assoclacao Comerclal e lndustrlal de Brotas) where t0d°5v Prmcipalmeme For T155 d0 the first steps were taken in search of partnerships, Sicredi QUE C0”5e8Ulm05 atmgil' n055a5 Like the Munlclpal City Hall, which allows the granting of met“ 9 Etc?-“”9a" "e5”ltad°5 hl5té"iC°5v more than R$ 1.5 million in Payroll Credit, in addition to the m€ with this team lnlclal who, engaged and committed to the “@5505 3550Ciad05» e5t3V with results, made the construction viable of the new agency mal5 P"éXlm05 9 FBZGV lUnt05- scheduled for delivery in 2021. With a structure In 2021: P0d€m05 dilel Que Selév of modern, bold and that presents an innovative concept, f3t0v 0 3H0 d3 €5Pe"a”§3 » am? 'We t0d05 the agency will have a coworking space for the use of €5P9"am dl35 m€lh0T95 mm 5 Vaclna of our associates, a location that will allow the construction of close and focused relationships in business, commerce and the expected tightening hands, hugs and being together and closer. As we achieve all that the new year promises us, the most exciting thing is that we will have the inauguration of the Sicredi branch in Brotas, which will certainly be a great success. Robson Macacari Manager V — Ci 5 EM H61 E‘ Av. Presidente Vargas. 805 (18) 3821-8899 The Dracena agency achieved good results in 2020, exceeding its goals in Credit, Investments and Consolidations. The\advance These products highlighted the performance of the team, which is made up of 11 employees and is always dedicated to offering the best service. In a solidarity movement, basic food baskets were collected in partnership with Mercado Bahia, which is a member of the cooperative, and later these foods were distributed to families in the city, who were in a state of vulnerability, such as form of support. 2020 was a year of overcoming action, in which we believed in the new and made happen with excellent results. In 2021 we will use our learning and experience from 2020 and start with the certainty that it is possible to achieve, even in the face of adversity, challenges, pandemic and quarantine and that a lot of things can be done differently and make things happen. Marcos Manhani Cnerente nun M.“ 5‘ J1I917€1[-T‘ 6“C”:‘!'TK¥VEEl R. Dep. M. J. Fernandes. 22 (14) 3406-3245 Thanks to the good relationship with public organizations Garca branch was highlighted in the municipality's internal campaign, the agency expanded its offer of Cooperative Credit in the 1st semester, Consigned to functions/Hos of these institutions, granting more than R3 5 million in 2020. AT the beginning of the and everyone stayed in that The agency's team of collaborators carried out a _ . N. . . Indecision about what will happen‘ We had a collection of Hmpeza materials that were donated. . . measure how much the financial market will be for the Secretariat of Assistance and Development. No, .. Impacted and we were not sure what Irla Sooa\ de Garca. The commitment is part of a series. . happen, but contrary to perspectives, of social actions that seek to contribute to )\ . our agency surprised the results, Wocal community. delivering twice as much as planned, so in numbers it was wonderful. In Z021 we hope to exceed expectations in the same way as 2020, achieving success, with a team of united employees to deliver even better results to our associates and continue contributing to the local community. Ana Carolina Lima Manager Av. Leﬁo Miguel Bannwart. 2 O 8) 3556-1947 Our agency's partnership with Cocipa became even stronger during the pandemic as, together, we created solutions for residents with discounts in specific markets (coffee, milk and biscuits) for C Day through registration of our Sicredi Conecta application, reinforcing the intercooperation and Fulfilling our role of contributing to a more collaborative society. The agency gained recognition with the "Highlights of And" award, promoted by the Impacto communication group for financial education classes held for students and teachers from DRE —EE de Lucélia. N65 from Sicredi we also had to adapt in the quest to make even more different without losing our essence, looking at the centrality of the member and meeting the 5 desires of our community. Thus, we formed an arm and, looking back, we are sure that everything was for us to mature and move forward together. Sicredi has always been and is at the [support of our associates, involving our employees and participating in the communities and in these days we are living in we are increasingly sure that we will continue to move forward together in this new year. Marcos Peruchi Manager One of the agency's highlights is the strengthening of partnerships with Mun'\Cipa\ City Hall and Unimed, which provided greater access to Payroll Credit for the employees of these entities. The great achievement of the deJaL1 agency is the 343% exceedance of the Credit target. This was a product that stood out thanks to the team's commitment to results and growth. An unusual year that made us change habits, routines, our consumption and relationships, both personal and professional. A challenging year, but together, despite the distance, we managed to reinvent ourselves. We feel the loss of beloved associates and company closures, we invested and contributed to the continuity of commercial and professional activities with projects that brought encouragement in difficult times. Once again, cooperation showed its strength' Marcelo Alvarez Manager R. Amaral Cnurgel, 817 (14) 3601-1919 The partnership with Unimed lad also led to the installation of a Sicredi service point within the new hospital. The structure will have a modern wayout and prepared to meet the needs of Wocak mm associates. N-lwv|Sp\rlmnr\n /' ?’»§‘.e§ ? I. ~ v sag 6 $2.' '%;lr'2'7%'!f'*';E1l Av. Nelson Spielmann, 629 (14) 3454-7676 05 biggest highlights of the agency in 2020 were the In 2020 we carried out the inauguration of the new partnership agency for granting Payroll Credit. One with more than 1,000 m1 and 24 parking spaces. Consércios action, held in November, co\oCou The modern structure has coworking space the agency in Prominent position among more than 700 that can be used by members guaranteeing agencies in Central PR/SP/RJ. Even more convenience for doing business. The agency's large numbers show growth of 400% in the Consortium Portfolio, 350% in Investment Funds and 200% in Savings and Deposits in general and more than doubled Credit Operations. This is a significant development in products. Z020 was a year of many discoveries, of a new normal and, for agency, a year of many achievements with the increase in the number of employees, the new structure, the delivery of considerable numbers, in addition to the various partners. A year of many blessings for our team. In 2021, 05 challenges continue, however, this year we continue to reap the fruits of all the work in 2020 and we will focus on the membership with a team extremely prepared to serve the community. Viviane Godoy Manager Av. Rio Branco, 1153 (14) 210 676 With a Health Insurance campaign Life, carried out by The teams of collaborators carried out several actions Mapfre, the Rio Branco agency Hired 146 apéﬂces, with a social nature As “C Day” with blood donations and representing more than a hundred lives several educational lectures ﬁnancial activities carried out in protected faculties such as Medicine de Man/Iia and Univem, in addition to FATEC. One of the great highlights of the Rio Branco agency, fox' won the Raiffeissen prize from our Center\ Sicredi PR/SP/RJ for good development of the actions of the cooperative's social programs that involve Crescer, Financial Education, Dia C, among other initiatives. 2020 was a challenging year for all of humanity in every way: survival, health, emotional, financial, professional, as we have never experienced a pandemic like this. We had to adapt, reinvent ourselves, live with the “new normal” in the face of everything that presented itself. We ended 2020 with a lot of learning, grateful to have our family, collaborators, associates and friends with health. We have to celebrate the results achieved in this scenario. 2021 is the year of hope, the arrival of the vaccine. May humanity heal and, above all, our economy recover, grow again and provide jobs. We are a link and we are all interconnected, cooperating with each other to help mL'1tua‘I believe in a very prosperous and happy 2021 for all of us. Elaine Delacosta Oerente .w....m, ...n.u Av. Brasil, 729 (14) 3283-8686 2020 was a very different year with many challenges and we had to adapt to achieve success at the Pederneiras agency, even in the face of an unprecedented scenario caused by the pandemic in which we often feel fear. Our team came together in the face of the new and we exceeded expectations, achieving highly satisfactory results. For Z021 we have high expectations of achieving even greater growth, not only in our agency, but in the entire pafs. Furthermore, we hope that a cure will happen and we will no longer have to lose so many lives that were lost to the disease last year. Here's to a happy and prosperous year HOVO Edilson Sala Manager As a solidarity action, the Pederneiras team used cooperation to collect hygiene materials and geriatric diapers for the city's ASHE. The Pederneiras agency stood out in the Credit product in 2020, reaching 100% of the annual target\ in August and also demonstrated good performance in Life Insurance product that\can(;or 200% of the target\can\ still in September. ..m..~: 7 mm Av. Cyro Ventura Barbora. 235 (14) 3405-4040 1 I" ' 1: a ' ' LARDOS mog"s“: Amomornsnsnlconzmm The agency's net result deserves to be highlighted for °“““"'°**5=VP surpassing R3 1 million in 2020, thanks to the dedication and efforts of the entire team who, in \and to business, it also carried out actions for the community, such as collecting hygiene kits and cleaning materials for 0 Home for the Elderly of Pompeii, If we say that 2020 was a good year, we would be unfair to many people, as many families lost loved ones, many who became sick, unemployed or experiencing difficulties. It was really a very complicated year. But in the context of our agency we were able to deliver 5 planned objectives, ensuring that our main strategic goals were achieved even in the face of difficulties. So, 56 we can conclude that, despite everything, it was a year of gratitude, as well as a lot of learning and hard work. From Z021 I hope it will be a good, happy year, where we can work steadfastly, looking to the future, to our strategic objectives and continue to be grateful for everything we have. We will work with a focus on results, member centrality, contribution to the city and dedicated to the future opening of a branch in a new space that will bring even greater and better functionalities. Rafael Silva Gereme § 7 I ;-gm. Vuvi raswr. a a.. 4 WE”; Av.Tabajara,1234 (14) 3691-1000 The Tupé agency was highlighted in investment and consortium products, where it reached 100% of the annual target in the 1st season. Furthermore, its closer relationship with City Hall and other Municipal Bodies offering Payroll Credit guarantees excellent results for Cooperative 63 for its members. Actions were taken to collect basic food baskets and food in general for philanthropic institutions in the City As a form of cooperation for people in need. The year 2020 was a very challenging and adapting year, where we had to accelerate our technological knowledge and, through it, continue the achievements of our associates. And we won. Even in such difficult times, with a fluctuating financial market, our agency achieved excellent results with dedicated work to offer the best service to our members. Already 2021 signals to be a promising year, of great achievements, where we will dedicate ourselves intensely to the search for financial results, with numbers even more significant than last year, in addition to mobilizing ourselves in social actions for the community. And we will be able to show once again that together we will win. Alexandre Mosquera Social Network Manager Big Numbers ‘D /sicredicentrooestepaulista TNTERAQCES AND TOTAL REACH ENQAJAMENTO CONNECTIONS BY CURWDAS MENSAOEIV1 /sicredicentrooestepaulista TNTERAQCES AND ENOAJAMENTO CUQUES ON THE SITE REACH TOTAL LIKES \/PAQINA'S TZUALTZAQOES PAOTNA'S VIEWS PERFTL VIEWS 886,351 PERRFTL'S VIEWS O Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista E><\BIgA0 TIME \/\suAL\zAgA0 H\|SCR\TOS @www.sicredicentrooestepaulista .com.br ENGAGED SESSIONS VIEWS INTERACTIONS LJSLJARIOS Watch our cooperative's institutional video right now =25 Sicredi $72 Sicredi