C‘ Sicredi Centro Ogste Paulista ELATORIO. UAL n ‘$- 10 nun; nu.-u <=: ' 1 Ej Coordination: warn gmm —/~'::c-:33' cc Cam-Hgccno E w m ketwwg Production: Message from the President Starting to ramp up barriers How good it is to be able to talk to you again, dear associated. Once again, I come to say that our cooperative, Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista, is growing like never before and 2019 was a year of many achievements. He brought the certainty that we are on the right path for our long-term objectives and guidelines, building everything with a lot of innovation, with you being the fundamental handle of this entire expansion. Proof of this are the more than 10 million reais in accumulated results in 2019. As a primary pillar of our business, transparency was present, not only in the meetings and financial statements of 2019, which had a record number of participation, but also in our events that involved the local community, with the intention of developing it increasingly, such as JuntoSSS, a program developed in partnership with Sescoop and Sebrae, which had 7 classes in 2019 and served more than 'I40 members, and the discussions and promotion of new ideas, promoted by the Youth and Women committees. Furthermore, the Sescoop Cultural Circuit was present in 'I2 cities with shows such as Demonios da Cnaroa, Os Filhos dos Caras, among others, in addition to the Financial Education Theaters and Cinema in Prague. In total, more than 40 thousand people were reached by this partnership between cooperatives and Sescoop, bringing Culture to the communities where we are. We also gave a voice to young people in our communities, who brought 18 revolutionary ideas to the Young Innovators Award, which began in May and ended in November with 3 winning projects, dealing with topics such as inclusion, responsibility, nutritional re-education, among others. As Sicredi's main social responsibility initiative, the A Uniao Faz a Vida Program broke the borders of our country and embarked for Haiti. In a historic partnership with Sagrado Rede de Educagao and with the support of Central PR/SP/RJ and Fundagao Sicredi, we took the project to 270 children in the country's capital, Porto Principe, as well as their teachers. Everyone was provided with uniforms, school materials and were able to develop the methodology that is based on active pedagogy. In our area of ​​operation, PUFV has its roots in the cities of Dracena and Pompeia and, in 2020, is reaching Adamantina, Marilia and Bauru. Anyway, we hope that you, dear member, are happy with your cooperative, because that is what we are, your cooperative. If you are not there or if you have any suggestions for us, please contact us. We build a stronger cooperative together and seeing you increasingly happy and aware of your role here is what moves us every day. 1050 Alberta Salvi President Report 2019 Message from the Executive Director From the project to the purpose: taking the plans to paper Another year ends Full steam and full of achievements so that 2020 starts even better. This is the feeling we have when we look back at 2019 and think about everything we achieved and built, especially with regard to the results achieved in the year, which keeps us firm in the long-term guidelines for 2022 and 2030' We arrived in 10 cities in our area: 12 operations, with openings in Imibia Paulista, within Cocipa, one of the largest consumer cooperatives in our region, and in Adamantina, in the center of city. Expansion is one of the focuses of our business, as this is the only way we can increasingly consolidate ourselves in the financial market and also remain firm in our aim to grow and deliver to you, our member and owner of the cooperative, an increasingly better result. In 2019, breaking more records, we reached 10 million reais in accumulated net income. A historic milestone for Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista. To achieve this flight, other numbers served as the impulse, as the almost 10 million rural credit operations carried out, 0s 5 million in credit for photovoltaic energy or, even, more than 2 million in credit portability from other financial institutions. The work on our credit recovery was also highlighted; an increase of almost 180% in receipts compared to the previous year, with more than 12 thousand regularization opportunities. All of this generated more results for us. As a result, we invested in new technologies, which made our processes more agile and we increased our workforce by 77%, reaching almost 200 professionals, so that you, our associates, have the comfort you deserve and the quality you desire. A reflection of this is our member satisfaction survey, which places us among the best indicators for Sicredi as a whole, above the national financial market. Our employees filled us with hope and pride, also, in 2019, volunteering for our financial education lectures, which reached more than 11 thousand people, including members and non-members. 2019 was a year of hard work for everyone and it deserves a thank you to you, our associate, for being with us and another to you, our collaborator, for believing in this mission to make dreams come true' And here's to 2020, so that we can celebrate 20 years of Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista with many achievements for all of us. Ildo Wilde Executive Director Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Board of Directors '1 Joan Alberto Ricardo Viegas Salvi Berriel President \/ice » President 9.6 '7 Carlos Alberto Douglas Giafferi Manfré Counselor Conselheim D. H Francisco Venditto Joao Augusto Soares Sant'Anna Counselor Counselheim José Eduardo José Octacilio Tomasini Pernambuco da Sllveira Counselor Counselheim Carlos Henrique dos Santos VICE - Presidents v. V i Enidelcio de Jesus Sartori Canselherro 9 H Joio Bosco Martins Pinto Canselherro Silvio Renato Dias Ottoboni Canselherro Get to know I1OSSOS COWSEWEWOS IFiscal Council José Carlos Paulo Roberto Formagio Martinello Permanent Council Member 7” Substitute Substitute Report 2019 Our Cooperative I Expansion and Growth The work of our cooperative consists of raising resources from members and lending them to other members of the same region, creating a business network that stimulates the prosperity of everyone involved and positively impacts the places where we operate. We also have a series of social investment actions, which seek to meet local needs and strengthen relationships with the community. Lins is one of the cities that should have a Sicredi branch soon. Through our products and services, we promote the financial inclusion of the population and boost the local economy. As a result, we help improve the quality of life of our associates, their families and communities. This way, the more our cooperative grows and prospers, the greater our positive impact. We call this process of joint development of the cooperative, the member and the community Sicredi Virtuoso Cycle. People are the most important thing for our cooperative. According to the president of the cooperative, Joao Alberto Salvi, when we arrive in a community or new cidacle, we feel embraced by the population. "We realize how fundamental thinking about people is and makes a total difference for communities. We give them ways of thinking differently about their financial lives, not only through the products and services offered, but also through actions such as educational lectures financial and cultural circuits. This is the Sicredi way of being. This is the way we arrived. This is our way", he states. Aturistxca city of Erotas will have Sicredi Planning for Z020 For the executive director. Ildo Wilde, expanding the service network is essential to achieving long-term guidelines. “This way, we can serve more people. support members, develop more communities and, most importantly, grow sustainably to reach the objectives of 2022 and 2030. Thus. Our focus. In addition to expanding facilities in cities where we already exist, it is reaching new municipalities, giving the inhabitants of that region a different option for taking care of their lives. future branch of Sicredi in Brotas Future branch of Sicredi in Marflxa Results of our cooperative The results achieved by Sicredi Centro Oeste Pautista in 2019 reflect the commitment of management and participation of our members, committed to the development of online communities we are. it '9 Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista @ Large Numbers Total Resources (millions of RS) For the ninth consecutive year, Sicredi was classified in the ranking of the "150 Best Companies to Work For" in Brazil. The list is the result of research carried out by Vocé S/A magazine, from Editora Abril, in partnership with Fundagao lnstituto Administragéo (FIA), with more than 250 thousand workers from around 500 companies and institutions, including Sicredi. in the five regions of the country. The scores are used by the ranking organizers to calculate two indicators: the Workplace Quality Index (IQAT), which is based on the vision of employees, in which Sicredi reached 923, and the Quality Index in People Management (IQGP), which is the assessment made by the publication, in which the financial institution scores 62.7. The two indicators form the Happiness at Work Index (IFT), where Sicredi reached the mark of 81.9. Sicredi currently has more than 28 thousand employees, who work in 111 cooperatives spread across 22 states and the Federal District. In 2017, the institution began a process of transforming your internal organizational model, adopting agile methodologies and providing even more autonomy to employees. II1€”‘|OI‘€S EH1 I‘€S8S you to t1-work Awards and recognitions Estadao Finangas Mais Broadcast+ 30 "Banks — Financing" from the yearbook. Among the highlighted indicators in the category, we had total assets (2nd place in the indicator ranking) and total credit ('|° place in the indicator ranking only). Best and Biggest 2019 For the 8th consecutive year, we appeared in the Exame Magazine categories, appearing in 15 rankings. finangas anuario As a highlight, we achieved 2nd place in the Rural Credit ranking and 6th place in the Savings Deposits and Credit for Medium Companies indicator. BNDES Ranking of the BNDES performance of financial institutions in the 0 annual ranking identifies indirect operations, those in which the development bank participates indirectly in the transfer of resources through from a financial agent accredited to it. We are ranked 1st in indirect operations in the Pronamp, Inovagro and Moderagro lines. Top Asset Through our resource manager, we occupy the 18th position in the Top Asset ranking of Investidor Institucional magazine, with more than R$3'l billion in resources under management. The magazine is the main communication channel with professionals from pension funds, private pension schemes and resource managers. 11 Value 1000 Among the 20 Largest Banks, we are in 4th place among the most profitable institutions on Equity, 5th among those that grew the most in Credit Operations and 7th among those that grew the most in Total Deposits. In the rankings that highlight the 20 Largest Banks in Total Deposits, Net Profit and with the Best Operational Result without Equity, we are in 7th place. Among those who choose the largest in Credit Operations and Net Equity, we are in 8th. Wycup Two projects developed by collaborators were awarded in the World Council Young Credit Union People competition, which takes place annually during the Woccu ​​World Conference (World Council of Credit Unions, its acronym in English). The award aims to encourage the training of young leaders and rewards participants who have created projects with the potential to have a global influence on credit cooperatives. Growth Award We received the Growth Award, during the Woccu ​​World Conference (World Council of Credit Cooperatives, its acronym in English), our growth in recognition of the credit cooperative segment. Empresas Mais We came in 2nd place in the category "Highlights for the best practices in Governance at Mais Estadao. The publication evaluates the Corporate criteria" ranking Economic Companies and the performance of companies in the areas of Corporate Governance and Innovation. 2019 Corporate Education Report Close Relationships In order to know the needs and personal, professional and business objectives of our associates, our almost 200 employees seek to be present in their daily lives, cultivating an increasingly close relationship. As they are also members of the Cooperative, they participate in decisions that impact its management and are engaged in the prosperity of the business and supported projects. Throughout 2019, we held a series of training and events with the The objective of preparing our employees to serve their members even better: Meeting of Accreditors Development Program Cooperatwista Training Agency Managers av: p of agency 'far T"e""ame“t° d9 Rural Credit Leadership Training Relationship Cycle Workshop with 0 associate 12 Deserivelvimerite pregram Pregrama de deserlveivimerite de Pregrarna Capacitagae de Cnesteres e Assessesseres da Sede Gesteres e Assessesses da Sede ""V95t'm9"'t05 Férum Administrative Ferum de Teseureires Ferum Gerentes Negécies PF — Alta Renda A Ferum Gerentes Negécies PF — Rerida a Pregrama de deseriveivimerito de Pregrama de Deseriveivimerito de Desevolar Direteres e Gerentes Direteres de Negecies e Operageses Program de Desenvolvimente de Programa de Fermagép d_e Neves Program de Desenvelvimente of Presidents and Executive Directors CI€|'9|'ItES d9 AEGVICIE Presidents and Executive Directors 13 2019 Report Support for members Responsible solutions Because we are a cooperative financial institution, in which the member is the one who decides the direction of the business, our main objective is to meet your financial needs. When he prospers, we all prosper together. Therefore, in addition to developing solutions suited to your moment in life, which positively impact your financial saiilde and are Prugramade/-\puio au N2gocioduAs5uçado capable of adding resources to your personal projects s'CRED'/SEBRAE/5"-scoop and your company. our cooperative in partnership with SEBRAE and SESCOOP/SP also trained14O associates with the JUNTOSSS program on marketing, innovation, finance and entrepreneurship topics with the aim of strengthening the growth of our associations. ' v _' /3- 1 l . ' Pedernem3s§' 14 -“ -Iiuuo Dois.mi.Lr .¢_=.;§ ii' Sicrrdi 15 Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Communities Assemblies Our associations have an active participation in the management of the business. Annually, they meet to elect Ntiucleo Coordinators, who represent their interests at the Cooperative's Ordinary General Assembly. Furthermore, they elect the members of the Fiscal and Administration Councils, who are responsible for the cooperative's strategy and for choosing the board of directors. Our associations also play a leading role in assemblies of micleo, where they democratically participate in the clecisées that affect their investments and their community. In 2019, we had a 64% increase in the number of participants in core assemblies, compared to the previous year. The topics discussed and the resolutions taken at these assemblies are taken to the Ordinary General Assembly, where the Core Coordinators deliberate on the direction of the Cooperative. 17 Report 2019 Sescoop Circuit Day C Demonios da Gama — JaL'L Show by Adriana Sanchez in Marx’l\a_ Delivery of Baum’s donations to Caritas Iocesana. Show Demonios da Garoa in Tupa. Cinema in Prague at Erotas‘ Collection of more than 300 personal hygiene products, sent to people in need. Planetdrium Raiffeisen Crwangas followed Amnos from Col_égi0 São F_ra_ncisco ASSESSOV d_€ DESEV|V0lV\mEQt0_d0 educators from PLanetano. received fun activities from Cooperatlvxsmg receive_p_rem|o Planetarlo. Dela mwssao no Ham. Teatro Educagﬁo Finance,-m Accreditators Em_Bauru‘ students from CoLé io Sap Escritores promote solidarity actions for the community of Pedemexras. FrancIsco_l0taram_the Teatro eLa Vista to reflect on the gangs. 18 Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Créditoadores ‘I9 dogs and cats adopted and fostered Proieto Créditoadores_Agéricia Gustavo Maciel Project Day for home with a felt bed with Aiegria in Pedernelras. Provides professional training for tire reuse discarded Bauru rnoradoreg in Garga. Paiestra “The Power of choices" to students Camparii-Ia do agasali-no together In Dracena' Cneladoteca had from a school in Florida Paulista/SP, with the City Hall of Tupa. partnership of the Committees and Lions Club, C0lE'_30_|'ad0 |'E5 dejupé Renovation of one of the AFAPAB rooms' Lectures promoted to the women's committee. . "Adoption is Love" Project Leads to Inauguration of the "Espago Literario Maria Project Raises Action encourages new awareness of pet adoption in Peni-Ia" in partnership with the Secretariat of funds for blood donors Garga, of Prison Policies for Women and of the reform of park and meduia ossea. Municipal Women's Reference and Care Center. — CASA ROSA in lad. F. Fragao do Pao Project seeks to revitalize Sarita Casa Mumcipai Cycle of talks Taiento and Agao empower people for a new one from Pompeii. promoted in Marilia. profession in Bauru. 19 Report 2019 Women's Committee Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista views diversity as a fundamental factor for the development and longevity of the business, directly impacting our ability to innovate and generate value for associates and their communities. Therefore, we have a Women's Committee, which aims to increase women's participation in our management. enabling them to take on roles of leadership in their communities and in our Cooperative. Entrepreneurial Woman Semimirio Around 250 women invited by our cooperative had the opportunity to participate in a seminar aimed at female entrepreneurs. Lectures with inspiring women brought messages of female empowerment, motivation and entrepreneurship to the participants. 20 Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista I Financial Education At Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista, we believe that We have a responsibility to support our members and non-members in managing and using their personal finances. . Financial education at a school in Bauru aware of our products and services. Therefore, we have initiatives aimed at financial education. Sicredi's main systemic action on this topic is the ENEF Week, an initiative by CONEF (National Financial Education Committee) to promote the Financial Education Strategy in Pederneiras National Education Financial. Organized by the Central Bank of Brazil between the 20th and 26th of May, it had the participation of financial organizations from all over the country, which Financial Education in Mam/Z019 carried out free educational activities for Emma“ ''9 Sam” to publicize the topic . Our collaborators volunteered to hold more than 180 lectures on the topic of Financial Education, which took place. - . . 33 ml xbxs from Turma da Monica lasts all year in schools, churches, distributed in 2019 auditoriums, colleges, and other places. In addition to promoting education and being part of one of the pillars of the development of cooperative activism, the educational workshops helped to bring our Cooperative closer to the Financial Education for Shooters of the TG—Tupé community that impacted more than two people from different cities. Cooperation in Ponta do Lapis Getting to know more about Turma da Mﬁmca helped students reflect on the importance of money Programmed ~ OUANTITY OF PEOPLE IMPACTED BY COO/Jemgao "0 ' eDucAn;Ao FINANCIAL WORKSHOPS Ponta do Ldpls accessing 0 2°" ' 828 QR—Code U0 (ado: 2018 — 5745 21 Report 2019 Grow Train collaborators, associates and cooperative leaders, aiming to qualify participation in the management and sustainable development of the cooperative. In 2019, Sicrecli Centro Oeste Paulista offered certification in cooperativism for people in its area of ​​activity. With this, aligned with our business. content that connects the theme of cooperativism to the phases of relationships with our associates as well as support in the training of our group coordinators. advisors and collaborators. ‘.44 ‘-1. 4 I. Garga associates participated in the Cooperative training meeting in Jau Purpose of Crescer Board of Directors of Unimed Marilia Cooperative training at the Agenor Mexra de Baum agency participates in cooperative training I Sustainability In Z019, we received, from Ecofinance Negocios, N J‘. ‘Zero Emission Certificate, certifying that. In 2017, 47.7 tons of CO2 were neutralized by the cooperative. The document attests to the compensation of emissions through the planting of 1Z4 trees in the Araucérias State Park, located in the municipalities of Galvao and Sao Domingos, both in the state of Santa Catarina. Still In the interest of sustainability, in 2019 the cooperative innovated several processes in order to reduce the use of paper. One of these processes was the centralization of account opening. what. in addition to enabling agility in the entry of more than 10 thousand new accounts. stopped making prints equivalent to 22 trees. And sustainable technology is increasingly innovating day-to-day processes at Sicredi. 22 1 year Delivery of PUFV t-shirts as a Teachers' Day gift Collective learning in the PUFV Training in Pompeia PUFVem Pompeia Methodology Training of new teachers in the PUFV Methodology in Dracena Training of new teachers in the PUFV Methodology in Dracena s \» PUFV learning circle in Pompeia 23 Members of the Municipal Secretary of Education of Pompeia and representatives of Sicredi Protagonism of educators and children gives 0 tom é Exhibition 2019 in Pompeia Pompeia's pedagogical planning also included the lecture by Emflxa Cipriano Pedagegic Exhibition in Dracena Works developed in 2019 are presented E (the Pompeii community Renowned speaker, Emilia Ciprxano spoke to the teachers of Dracena Marcelm Zanluthi' Cooperativwsmo Development advisor speaking to the Summit participants about the experience in Haiti Sicredi Caravan present at the Summit Educagéo 2019 2019 Report ProgramA Uniﬁo Faz a Vida Demonstrate a different way of teaching and learning, based on the concepts of cooperation and citizenship. This is the motivation of Sicredi who, during the month of September, was in Haiti on a special mission to promote comprehensive education in the country. The employees embarked towards the capital Porto Principe carrying in their luggage the methodology of the A Uniao Faz a Vida (PUFV) Program, the main social responsibility initiative of Sicredi, the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. The program, which last year impacted more than 284 thousand children and adolescents throughout Brazil, made its first foray outside the country through the initiative of Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista, with support from Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ and Fundagao Sicredi. During the mission in Haiti, collaborators presented the Program's methodology to the religious, teachers and employees of the Institution Sacré Coeurdelésus school, in Porto Principe. The institution, linked to the Sacred Education Network, offers excellent teaching and daily meals for more than 270 children who live in conditions of social vulnerability in the capital of Haiti. 24 Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista The initiative has a long historical performance and good results in Brazil. The Uniao faz a Vida Program began its activities in 1995, in the municipality of Santo Cristo, in the interior of Rio Cânrande do Sul, and is currently carried out in more than 1.9 thousand schools in more than 360 municipalities throughout Brazil. With its own methodology, the program proposes participatory learning with dialogue as its basic premise. The success of the project is linked to the engagement of several actors in the commitment network. In addition to Sicredi, manager of the program, are protagonists in this initiative: educators, pedagogical consultancy, partners, supporters, school managers, all together seeking to make a difference in the lives of children and adolescents through education. Experiencing the methodology with students begins with investigative expeditions, which are the starting point for defining the themes of cooperative projects. Educators formulate questions that guide the visit to the research territory and students go to the community to observe, experience and discover the environment around them. After the expedition, students democratically define the project to be carried out, choosing the topic they want to know more about. 25 The project, which has collaboration as its inspiration, included donations that made it possible to send 270 sports uniforms to the institution's children. According to Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Cooperative Development Advisor, Marcello Zanluchi, exercising volunteering is a way of becoming close to others "Taking an educational methodology to a country undergoing reconstruction was a way of reaffirming our commitment to the community, even if we have to go beyond borders, as the “A Uniao Faz a Vida" Program has numbers and sufficient history to export knowledge", he concludes. 66 We learned that in Haiti the perception of education was very different from what we were used to, but we know that quality education is the key to the development of communities. We believe in this and we are very happy to bring our experience to a country even more needy than Brazil", explains the president of Sicredi CEﬂt|'O Oeste Pauiista, Joao Alberto Salvi. 2019 report OVENS new Sicredi Young Innovators prize, carried out in partnership with the CEU — Centro de Empreendedorismo Universitario cla Unesp Bauru — whose final award took place in Marilia on Z0/ii/Z019. which sought to recognize, empower, encourage and connect iovensatemes such as cooperation, citizenship and innovation, in addition to contemplating the 17 goals of sustainable development of the UN, the Prize brought different ideas in the finalist projects and also a look at the future thinking, in addition to innovative ideas, in How to apply them in our communities and cities. The great champion was the Despensa project, in the city of Bauru, a simple proposal, in a different way and that can greatly contribute to a more sustainable future. “We are looking for a solution to the excessive disposal of food in the domestic environment, or in other words, to promote greater use of the food in people's homes, so that it can be consumed before it spoils. The smartphone application won the main prize and, in addition to 8 thousand reais in cash, all the mentoring from CEU at Unesp to start the project. The second and third places took, in addition to mentoring from the Unespiana League, R$4 thousand and R$3 thousand reais in cash, which brought Lima 26 OFES respectively, and the chosen projects deal with waste recycling as well as social inclusion through labor activity. "What Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista is doing is encouraging young people to think, develop and create new businesses, but focused on the SDGs, which are humanity's greatest challenges, the UN's 2030 agenda and this is truly transformative .", commented speaker Silvio Barros, former mayor of Maringa, after his lecture “Innovative Cities" which spoke about how cities are following evolution and reinventing themselves. He also sent a message to young people: “Pay attention, you who are creative, you who have good ideas, follow the evolution of this process and participate, next year, in a program that is still transformative, innovative for greater and more involving young people to build a better world". Joao Alberto Salvi, president of the cooperative, opened the event. «Xv . ..:..T. Czb.;A:;:L:L'.n. Young people celebrate together with the board of Cooperative ii Pantry Project was the grand champion of the Young Innovators Award held by our cooperative Social inclusion project wins prize Waste recycling project wins R$3,000, prize of R$4,000 Winners presented innovative, sustainable and creative projects for the community 27 Report 2019 28 Z9 2019 Report 30 Sicredi Center Oeste Paulista Dracena Agency Focus on members and quality of service In 2079 the relationship with associated was the main activity of the Dracena agency, according to manager Marcos Mannani. "We seek greater rapprochement with our social framework, to meet their needs and offer products and services that make sense for their lives and, in this way, become their main financial institution", concludes the manager. Another point of relevance were the products that make up the cooperative tripod, which is funding, credit and associates. With a new look Dracena’s agency It took a lot of effort to remove it, as well as the internal paintwork, with the aim of putting everything in the houses under the new brand. Thus, the member visits the Dracena agency to understand the evolution of our cooperative, which, together with Sicreai, seeks to provide conformity and even more in service and relationships, the manager reinforces: “our goal is to offer quality above ae tuao”, Theater on Financial Education ' for students from the Municipal Education Network in Dracena. 31 2019 Report 32 Y 2019 Report Jab' Agency: Highlight in Insurance Project Life Accreditors The eaa/pe approves the opportunity to negotiate with and proautos to promote the benefits of Life Insurance and offer it, thus guaranteeing effectiveness and camprination with 0 objective in the first months. In this way, the agency stands out but sells this project. “Our strategy contributed to our agency’s annual good results,” states the manager Marcelo Ah/ares, In partnership with Casa Rosa, an institution that provides assistance to women victims of domestic abuse, as well as their children, the agency provided the Raiffeisen Trophy and created the Espago Literario Maria da Penha, with the aim of to be a place of refL'1gio. The project involved all collaborators and even associates, who donated 56 money, as well as labor, such as painting and carpentry so that the room could be ready. The agency was the best class cooperative in the Raiffeisen trophy, which had scoring criteria that took into account Belonging, Accreditors, Welcome, Financial Education and Growing, in other words, pure cooperativism. Manager Marcelo Ah/ares and his team came up with a strategy and managed to raise their indicators. "What was most worth it was the unity of the team around this objective", says the manager. 34 35 save oz 37 2019 Report 38 39 Do you know Fernando Ferreira da SiLva, from Marflia? He is a character in the ﬁlm of Sicredi's campaign “Stories that make a difference", broadcast on a national network. Composed of 13 videos, this brings 26 stories from members, from different regions of the country, connected to the positive impacts of credit cooperatives. In each of the ﬁtmes, one member goes to the municipality where another lives, highlighting exchanges of personal trajectories and experiences with the institution. In the ﬁlm in question the approach is about How the proximity of Sicredi makes the difference when the associate invests to get their dream off the ground. In it, Fernando was a motorcycle courier and had the dream of opening a snack bar when he joined. Do Like Fernando, invest with Sicredi and make your dreams come true. Manager Juliana Gongalves assisting Fernando in Marilia. I don't have the words to describe what Sicredi represents to me. As IF it were par 2 rnae. They never left me rva mac” (B6 Fernando Ferreira da S\Lva Sicredi Centro Deste Paulista Redes S 0 CICIIS -f FACEBOOK INSTAGRAM |E|.|E| '3 iii /Sicredicentrooestepaulista asicredicentroaestepaulista I: YOUTUBE @ SITE E'.. E ! Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista sicredicentraoestepaulista.combr Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Activity Area Sicredi