AnuaLda Sicredi Ceﬂtro Oeste Pawista Report 7///////%/%/////%/%//%/%/%//%/%/////%/%///// %/%% Content O5 O6 O8 09 'IO 'I2 'I3 'I4 'I5 'I7 Presentation Word from the President Word from the Executive Director Advisors Results Opinions Asset Balances Institutional Video Expansion Awards 'I9 Care in the Pandemic 20 I Cooperate with the Local Economy 22 Internal marketing 25 Socio-environmental responsibility 26 Development of Cooperativism 29 20 Years of the Cooperative 31 Agencies 44 Social Networks Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Presentation Another year we have the pleasure of sharing with our more than 31 thousand members a summary of the main actions carried out in 2020 by Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista through this report. We bring transparency to our activities by presenting the work developed by our 13 agencies distributed in the Center—0este Paulista through our more than 215 employees, who, even amid the uncertainties imposed by the new Coronavfrus pandemic, dedicated themselves intensely to delivering the best results to associates. Good reading. Coordination: Nutﬁ Crrvari — Advisor to Cnmunicugzin and Marketmg Maria Laura Rufuttn — Assistant to Cnmunicugzin, Marketmg and Development of the Conperatiwsmn Production: Canal da lha Ourlherrne Radrigues — Drretnr Geral Tutyar1eAruu/'0 — Diugrumugﬁa and Edigzin Suzanu Mara Juliﬁ o — Jarnulista Respcmsuﬂ/el — MTB 43389 Support: Anderson I\/lrlarm — Cornuniiagﬁa Assistant, Marketing 9 Desem/. do Cnoperutivisrna I\/lurcelm Zanluihi — Development Advisor of Caaperutrvismn 005 Word from the President Chegames, once again, to a memento [myce in our Cooperative: the assemblies, And, snowy, Chegames with good netfacts. The first of them is to be together in this mind — a different "iuntos", but together. Another great net worth is the result of our business, which never stops To grow. In Sanes, it increased fivefold, going from R$2.2 million in 2016 to more than R$12 million in 2020, even in the face of the challenges posed by the pandemic. . In this year of pandemic, we seek spas of tazer in these assemblies of mode that and care With the health of each one make the key comb. Thus, we arrive at the digital model, not tae calerese They came to these last assemblies that, at the time, had par ' ipacae recerde, with more of 5 million people, but be sure and trustworthy, where you can, asseciade, ask to support the preStac_'a'0 of Hundreds that they will do, eteger these granting representatives of YOUR mlclee and vote on the agendas such as allocation of results, presentation of the centabit balance, between eutras. Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista In fact, in these assemblies you will be able to remember everything we did throughout 2020, from the prevention measures taken in our agencies, such as the use of masks, alcohol gel and relay of collaborators, to the actions promoted to provide support in these challenging times, after all, our purpose of building, together, a more prosperous society in the Center-West of São Paulo cannot stop. This is a commitment we have to our community. We translated this commitment into the more than 700 associates impacted by the action "I cooperate with the Local Economy", which sought to support entrepreneurs by offering, free of charge, education and promotional material in partnership with the Sebrae and Canal da Ilha' Or even, in the more than 3.5 tons of food, hygiene and cleaning items and 400 people treated with blood bags, nL'1 numbers resulting from day C — the day to cooperate. The more than 4 thousand people reached by our financial education workshops are also part of this translation, after all, a more prosperous society is built with education. feminine and cooperativism with a focus on the role of women entrepreneurs in the face of the pandemic and the Young Innovators Award which, in its second edition, completely digital, was carried out in partnership with 0 CE — Center for University Entrepreneurship at Unesp Bauru and Sebrae, with the aim of recognizing , encourage, train and connect young people to themes linked to the essence of Sicredi, such as cooperation, innovation and citizenship, contemplating the UN's sustainable development objectives. Furthermore, our mission in Haiti, carried out in 2019, received recognition from the World Council of Credit Cooperatives (WOCCU) for the social impact achieved in the Caribbean country. This was the first international mission of the A Uniao Faz a Vida (PUFV) Program, and it was carried out by our cooperative. All these actions fill us with pride and came to, in 2020, crown our 20th anniversary, celebrated on November 28th, a Saturday, with a Live that, in addition to being commemorative, brought solidarity and Hope, once again, for the children of Haiti. All of this was done by you, member, who believed in our cooperative. You, in fact, have always been the focus of our cooperative, since its founding, 20 years ago, until today. Thank you for walking with us and, even more, for making us stronger and stronger. We hope for an even better 2021, with a promising future. Take care of yourself for us and we will be here to take care of you. ll Our purpose of See you soon! /ma/Jan; Joe Alberto Salvi President, building a more prosperous society together cannot stop. This is a commitment that we have 007 in the Center—West of São Paulo m with our community. 008 2020 was a really different year. We started with everything. Our assemblies brought together more than 5 thousand people, deciding and thinking about the future that lay ahead of us — without knowing, however, what awaited us: the Coronavirus pandemic. Our purpose is to build a more prosperous society in the Faulist Center-West, It made more and more sense when we looked at the community and knew we couldn't stop. And we don't stop. Given this entire scenario, cooperation made the difference. We raised more than R$51 million in savings, reaching more than R$BOO million in managed resources. NLimers that strengthened our cooperative and allowed us to grant more than R$100 million in new credits, with lines that range from production to the point of sale, making dreams come true. All these numbers helped us move towards our long-term guidelines, goals for 2022 and 2030. Our Consortiums also allowed our members to dream. There were more than R$27 million in sales. And we never stop offering peace of mind to everyone with our Insurance portfolio. Safety was also the watchword in our agencies: We followed all Covid-19 prevention protocols with the use of masks, alcohol gel and divided employees into groups, rotating between remote work 2 face-to-face at the agency, reducing the risk of Contagion without compromising service to you, associates, and business owners. In fact, our Employees carried out numerous actions that, in addition to financial solutions, also provided support to our associates. Among them is the “I cooperate with the local economy” movement, which gave visibility to associated entrepreneurs, helping them to overcome challenges. In a partnership with Sebrae, we offered 10 hours of online content about marketing, sales and financial education, in addition to Cards and Videos, in partnership with 0 Canal da Ilha, Word from the Executive Director, a production company from Bauru, 2 which were posted on our social networks. All free of charge, impacting more than 700 members. Gratitude to you, collaborator, for carrying out our purpose. Gratitude to you, associate, for believing in this purpose. Ending a year like this with a satisfaction rate above 79% makes us believe that, in 2021, we will do even more far away, Building a more prosperous society in the Center—0este Paulista. Ildo Wilde Executive Director Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Joao Alberto Salvi President v‘. Douglas Manfré Counselor Joao Bosco Martins Pinto Counselor Board of Directors Fiscal Council Ricardo Viegas Berriel Vice-President Carlos Formigio Effective Counselor Claudio Alberto Camesclui Counselor 1st Alternate * Enidelcio de Jesus Fr Sartori Counselor & Losé Eduardo Tomasini Pernamlruco Counselor Julio César Gonsal Luvizutlo Carlos Henrique dos Santos Vice-President Ancisco Venditto Soares Counselor lose‘ Octacilio da Silveira Counselor O09 & Carlos Alberto ﬁiaferri Counselor F? "vi Joio Augusto Sant'Anna Counselor & Silvio Renato Dias Ottoboni Counselor Effective Counselor Nilton Eduardo Guerreiro 2nd Deputy Counselor Rafael Marcluioni Effective Counselor Arildo Luciano Gerlin da Silva nte Counselor 3“Substitute for Center Oeste Pauhsta 2020 --'-- Life and results. We sell more than 1020% of Sup¢,% to R$1,020, which was R$1,020,000. We currently have a Public and Private: R$22, released in 2020; Rural: R$11.7 million between Costing and Photovoltaic Energy: R$2.2 million of the annual target Meios de Pa Em October. we reached R$1 billion in receipts in slips and 4-card machines. * I We surpassed the R$ SO million mark in savings capture in November. totaling more than R$800 million in managed resources and more than 31 thousand associates. Sicredx Centro Oeste Pautista OOH Total Resources (millions of RS) @CC 2018 2020 Credit Operations (millions of RS) @L@ 2018 2020 Associates (thousands) @</GD 2018 2020 Net Worth (millions of RS) ®C/O 2018 2020 Net Profit (millions of RS) CDC/GD 2018 2020 Numbers Opinion of the Fiscal Council Marflia /SP, 'I2 March 2021 As members of the Supervisory Council of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Centro Oeste Paulista Region — Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista and in the exercise of legal and statutory duties, we examine the Administration Report and the Financial Statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses. Demonstration of Changes in Net Equity, Statement of Cash Flows, Statement of Comprehensive Income. Explanatory Notes and other statements on the financial statements. These documents are valid for the year ending December 31, 2020. According to the Governance policies adopted by Cooperatives and based on our examinations, the audit reports of independent auditors. issued by Ernst E: Young Audxs Independentes S.S., internal audit report carried out by Central PR/SP/RJ, both during 2020, we are in favor of approving the aforementioned demonstrations. Independent Audit Opinion We examined the financial statements of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Centro Oeste Paulista Region - Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista ("Cooperative") which comprise the balance sheet on December 31, 2020. and the respective statements of surplus, of comprehensive results. of changes in net assets and of cash ﬂows for the year ending on that date. as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including a summary of the main accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present adequately. in all relevant respects. the financial position of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Centro Oeste Paulista Region - Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista on December 31, 2020, the performance of its operations and its flows cash flow for the year ending on that date, in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil (BACEN). Porto Alegre, March 8, 2021 ERNST &YOUNG Auditores Independentes S.S. CRC — ZSF'O'|S'|99/0-6 _ _ in the menu Para 0Assoclado/Arqulvos/Opinions .' Fiscal or scan the QR CODE at [ado com the And camera of your snwartphone' Américo F. Ferreira Neto Contador CRC-'|SF'19Z6BS/0-9 The complete Opinions are available on the E ' I E website: https://sicrediCentrooestepaul\sta.con1.br/ S1Cr'QE|1(€7'1tI'O Oeste Pautista 0013 Balango Patrimonial (in thousands of reais) Cooperativa de Créd1t0,P0upanga e Investimento da Region Center Oeste Paulista Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista CNPJ/MF n° 04.463602/0001—36 AVAILABLE 9,625 7,524 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 683,619 481,679 Interﬁnancial liquidity applications 4,684 4,674 Financial centralization 26 8,789 191,103 Active interﬁnancial relations - 4 Credit operations 373,337 260,678 Other financial assets 36,809 25,220 PROVISIONS FOR EXPECTED LOSSES ASSOCIATED WITH CREDIT RISK (15338) (W23) OTHER ASSETS 6,613 7,200 INVESTMENTS 9,214 9,214 FIXED ASSETS DE 050 12,579 10,573 INTANGWEL 2,355 2,494 DEP05|T05 554,327 390,620 Demand deposits 106,973 59,520 Interﬁnancial deposits 6,250 5,352 Term deposits 441,104 325,748 OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 18,707 10,130 Interﬁnancial relations 16,944 9,673 Obligations for transfers 1,356 - Other financial liabilities 407 457 PROVISIONS FOR RISKS C1VE|S.TR|BUTAR|OS 325 283 LABOR OTHER LIABILITIES 50,973 36,435 SHARE CAPITAL 41,413 34,592 SURPLUS RESERVES 37,948 29.13 8 ACCUMULATED SUBSTANCES OR LOSSES 3,374 3,363 Watch right now the institutional video of our cooperative Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista Expanding our service network to an increasingly larger number of cities and being able to plant the seed of cooperation in these places is the essence of our work. of which we dedicate all 5 days. Ildo Wilde Diret0rExecut\\/0 EX Pl-__\N SAD OOW6 Sicredi Centro Oeste PauUSta Brotas With a modern and innovative layout, Sicredi will set up an agency in the municipality of Brotas in 2021. The physical structure has 637 m1 and an innovative project that will provide members with a Coworking space in addition to all the benefits of products and financial services with differentiated service. The inauguration is scheduled to take place in first half of 2021 and will be attended by the authorities and directors of Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista. I 44 Unimod Hospital New branches in addition to Brotas. The Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista cooperative is due to inaugurate and reopen new facilities in Herculéndia, Adamantina, Pompeia and within the new Unimed hospital in Jatfl, and there are also studies for the implementation of agencies in the municipalities of Lins and Rancharia. This expansion will allow us to leverage new businesses, expand the number of associates and offer jobs, which encourage the local economy and the growth of these communities, and with the arrival of Sicredi they will have possibilities of access to financial services and products, in addition to participating in Herculéindia financial education events . Sicredx Centro Oeste Paulista 0 Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Ranked 43rd among the 5 largest banks that are part of the guide. Furthermore, it stood out with 23rd place in the Rural Credit ranking, ranked 5th in Credit for Medium Companies, rising one position in relation to last year's ranking and other highlights. In the annual Negocios 360° season, Sicredi ranked 953rd in the general ranking. In the Banks sector ranking, it came in 5th place, standing out within the sector with 1st place in Corporate Governance and 3rd place in Financial Performance. The institution also ranked 73rd in People. Sicredi ranked 69th among companies listed. The institution also ranked 13th among the 20 largest in the finance area. To top it off, Sicredi also occupies 7th place among the top 20 in Net Profit and also in the '155th position in Equity Profitability, among others. In the edition of Valor Econﬁmico magazine, Sicredi ranked 25th with the award that highlights the 20 largest banks. It also ranked 73rd in the ranking of the Largest in Credit Operations, Total Deposits, Net Profit and among the Best Operational Result. The premium refers to financial agents and is prepared by BNDES. Sicredi was highlighted in 1st place in the following categories: - Indirect PF Operations - ProgramasAgrI'cola5 do Gov. Fed. - Pronaf Investimento - lnovagro - Moderagro - Pronamp Investimento Sicredi Center Oeste Paulista WYCUP — World CouncilYoung Credit Union People 0 highlights in 2020 was the recognition achieved by Sicredi associate, Vinicius Mattia, aged 26, with the project "Family Farming and Sustainable Food", which was among the three best initiatives presented in this year's edition. As a reward, Mattia won a scholarship that includes participation in the 2021 World Conference of Credit Unions, which will be held in Scotland. At the time, Sicredi presented six other cases. The members of the mission carried out by Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista in Haiti, in 2019, received, on September 22nd, recognition from the World Council of Credit Cooperatives (WOCCU) for the social impact achieved in the Caribbean country. This was the first international mission of the A Uniao Faz a Vida (PUFV) Program. Best Companies to Work For For the ninth consecutive year, Sicredi is among the "150 Best Companies to Work For" in Brazil. The list is the result of research carried out by Vocé S/A magazine, from Editora Abril, in partnership with Fundagao Instituto Administragao (FIA), with more than 250 thousand workers of around 500 companies and institutions, including Sicredi, in the five regions of the country. Top Asset In 2020, the ranking classified Sicredi in Resources from Open Pensions: the institution recorded the third highest growth in the last two months and the fifth best performance in the last six months. It is also worth highlighting that, in the general classification, Sicredi once again occupied 18th place among the more than 140 resource managers evaluated in Brazil, with more than R$ 32.8 billion in resources under management‘ Top 100 Open Startups In 2020 Sicredi appeared for the first time in this ranking that references the 100 most open companies for innovation in Brazil. 0100 Open Startups is a platform sponsored by global companies that, together, evaluate and classify startups from around the world. The most attractive startups are selected by large companies to collaborate in the development of high-impact innovations for society and the market. Pandemic Care Due to the new Coronavirus pandemic, the Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista cooperative took a series of measures to protect 5 employees and members. There was a 9% increase in the number of employees and 1/3 of employees remained working from home with a new way to work via Home Office. Municipal decrees were followed, with the use of masks, frequent cleaning of cash registers with the number established in each e\etrem'cos, action\ and\ distributed throughout location, agency access control and temperature measurement, as well as simplification and informative maintenance. Thinking about a financial reorganization of our members in the challenging moment caused by the pandemic, we invested more than R$ 8.9 million in outstanding installments in 2020, providing more convenience and security to our members. We release credit with special interest rates for those taken with a guarantee of application, where the remuneration of these invested resources they also had a differentiated income; for the public Pessoa Jurl/dica we offer the extension of installments of non-paying members, reduction in the value of TED fees, payment of Emergency Aid, BNDES operations voted for Capital Giro, campaign for registration action via IB and App, PESE (Payroll financing), emergency Hnha R3 1.5 million freed with around 1,500 jobs preserved and 57 companies served, PRONAMPE (working capital emergency): R$ 8.9 million allocated to 230 companies from different segments and preserving around 5,000 jobs. In addition, we renewed automatic insurance renewals to make day-to-day life easier and guarantee peace of mind for our members. I cooperate with Economla Local Initiative helps entrepreneurs in times of pandemic and becomes a national case To stimulate economic development by supporting local entrepreneurs, 0 Sicredi Iangou, at the height of the new pandemic Coronavfrus, the “I Cooperate with the Local Economy” movement. Improving the action, Sicredi Centro Oeste Pauiista goes further, looking for practical solutions that could support traders who found themselves in a very difficult situation to keep their businesses active and ended up becoming a case at national level. The action is a way of cooperating with its entrepreneurial associates, offering them the opportunity to publicize their trade, through a Whatsapp Card and a 30-second video to be shared on social media, produced in partnership with Canal da llha, in addition to the Er1frer1tarJuntoSSS course, in partnership with Sebrae, with 10 hours of online classes on marketing, management and financial education. The most diverse products and Esse The project is very special because it opened up services, such as shops, leather shops, clinics, machining shops, workshops, the mind for new knowledge and English language exchanges, content makers, artisans, among others. of experiences. One I push us not to give up, not to be afraid. The movement The initiative allowed the support of approximately 700 members, bringing this important strengthening to Sicredi. The project guaranteed entrepreneurial pedestrians access to small businesses. We are encouraged to have an important tool to increase the visibility of your business, courage, innovate and perform better, in times of pandemic, which is digital marketing and, best of all, without causing a loss to the company or cost to the company. associated. With this support, the cooperative promoted Iocai commerce to become better known. boost in the commercialization of local products and services, fulfilling its development role in the communities where it operates. Lucimara BVEVE Agenor l\/ieira 190 350 +700 Users of the APP Partigipanteg do Videos and Cards Sicredi Conecta Enfrentarjuntosss produced at no cost. Hundreds of members received support to promote their ventures through the dissemination of videos and cards on official Facebook page of the Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista cooperative. Scan the QR Codes below with your smartphone and watch some videos. Agﬁes ​​value employees and associates on commemorative dates produce more than 30 thousand KWh per month. This load is enough to supply 120 homes with 4 people, with an average consumption of 250 KWh/month. With the action, R$178.000 were saved and 134 trees were saved. Our cooperative was certified by Ecoﬁnance Negocios and Biofflica for neutralizing carbon emissions through a project in an RPPN in Bocaiﬂva do Sul (Parana), in the Mata biome. Atlantica, and in the REDD Project, in Jari (Para). The initiative directly contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals ‘I3 (Action against global climate change) climate) and 'IS (Terrestrial Life) which reinforces our commitment to the environment, As participants in the GlobalZO30 Pact' Agées promote cooperativism in communities Youth Committee Online events that took place in the first and second semester, aimed to develop individual skills necessary to navigate the moment of crisis and post-crisis, hem How to build \ I the future of the cooperative system in Brazil. Young people engaged \\ Q in the cause cooperative members participated in the activities through digital platforms. \X ' 9 . \ \, Comité Mulher Before the pandemic, the Comité Mulher organized in the city of Pederneiras, in partnership with Cé Municipal, an event on the role of women in society and the issue of abuse against the feminine public. In addition, a Financial Education workshop was organized for 150 people. Jé in Bauru, a lecture was held on women's health care5, in partnership with Magonaria and agency employees. Entrepreneurial Woman Seminar In 2020, the event brought the theme “Real Women” through an online chat about female entrepreneurship and cooperativism with a focus on the role of entrepreneurial women in the face of the pandemic. products that would be discarded because of their appearance, but that are good for the world. Food that would be wasted because it does not meet aesthetic standards is selected and sold for below market value. Grow Events were held before (in-person) and during (on—|ine) the pandemic. The Crescer classes participated in certified cooperative training, which aims to introduce members into the universe of cooperativism, totaling more than 350 participants. Training for advisors was also carried out, where the new members of the supervisory board participated in 0n—|ine training. I Luann O ECHOS 0 POINTS.' (UL!!! 1 mo» MARKET TERA 3.? Sdrv-our Solidarity and Financial Education are \ ' 1: part of development actions \ Financial Education To provide information and improve people's relationship with their finances and with the objective of To disseminate Cooperativism, Financial Education events were held. The actions reached more than 4 thousand people during the month of 2020, with the majority of meetings held online due to the pandemic. Dla C Nossa5 actions of Day C involved the collection of 35 I food and hygiene materials, via the Sicredi Dams Conecta app, in addition to blood donations. In total, more than 35 tons of food, hygiene and cleaning items were collected, in addition to benefiting more than 400 people with blood donations. Sicredi Center Oeste Paulista 0029 20th Anniversary Live A live in the cemetery at the 20th anniversary of the celebration, I received a huge shout out to the celebrities and associates who followed on the internet special attractions are scheduled for that date. The 20 years of work towards the development of the cooperative leave proud leaders who have seen significant growth in this period of two decades with an increase in the number of agencies, staff and financial results. Sicredi Center Oeste Paulista is one of the 108 cooperatives affiliated with the Sicredi system. It currently has 13 agencies in an area of ​​activity that covers 84 municipalities in the Center-West Paulistar “This co-operative went through a challenging 2020, thus increasing the market, but it continued to grow, both in terms of results and size, and the main goal is this: the focus on the community and associations”, reinforces president Jeao Alberto Salvi. Scan the QR Code below with your smartphone and watch the Sicredi Center Oeste Paulista birthday live in its entirety. ll You are very afraid of the celebration that censtruimes far from these 20 years. In this expectation, it is to repeat 0 succeed in the coming decades. Joéo Alberto Salvi President 0030 Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista 20th anniversary campaign 4 “M / I An awards party was prepared slag, ccnﬁooxupamlﬁa in celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista cooperative for its more than 31 thousand members. Promotional campaign gives members the opportunity to actively participate in the 20th anniversary celebrations. Facing the member, the cooperative is carrying out a campaign, during the 01/12/2020 until 31/05/2021, where prizes will be drawn such as 1 HB20S 0Km car, 2 Honda CG motorcycles, 14 savings accounts worth RS 2 thousand each and more than 3 thousand instant gifts. Members' participation takes place through of coupons according to what is purchased in products and services at Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista. Managers and all teams are available to associates for guidance and questions on how to receive coupons during business transactions. Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista has been promoting local development and spreading credit cooperatives in the communities where it operates. HIIISIII I MI-‘CIONUNG Iopnuuqunlilﬂ Zﬁliﬁilhfﬁﬁl With few founding members initially, the cooperative ,,,,,u,,,,.,.,.,,v,.,. ~,..,,___, expanded its borders over the years and today has more than 31 thousand members, is present in 11 cities in the Center-West of São Paulo, with 14 branches and more than 200 employees. 003‘! Av. Santo Anténio. (18) 3522-5028 Wow agency received recognition in the award A partnership with the city hall and carnara mur1ic\'pa\ "Detachments of And", promoted by the lmpacto group for the offer of consigned credit granting about communication. of RS 3 million\h6es was one of the largest negotiations highlight of the agency in 2020. We were highlighted in the fundraising for the elderly care institution “Lar dos Velhos”. 2020 was a year of many obstacles and Adamantina promoting solidarity. Also V ~ _ _ _ numbers challenges, our willpower strengthened the country of financial education on—|Go and overcome so that we could Contributing to the community. Accepting changes and adapting were essential characteristics for us to face these obstacles and achieve our achievements. The expectations for improvements were great and our faith to continue was even greater. Already in 2021, the prospects are so much in the yearning for better days, now more experienced in the face of the new, which [is not so new and each increasingly stronger to continue, each one doing their part within our [airs and in society." Marcos Peruchi )““°'| Manager 0032 Our agency renewed a partnership with Beneficência Portuguesa for the opening of accounts, expanding even more of associates and promoting new businesses for professionals in the satellite area. More than 1000 people participated in the financial education lectures rearranged online for the agency, and on Day C, the collaborators are happy to collect basic food baskets to donate to needy families in Bauru. R. Agenor Meira, 12-81 (14) 3312-3200 Our agency had great relevance in a campaign by Central PR/SP/RJ, where it was highlighted among more than 700 agencies in the Consércios and Credit Cards products. 2020, a year of a lot of learning. A very productive year where we need to reinvent ourselves to work from home and provide full support to our associates and also a year where we learned a lot to valued Life. In 2021 we hope that this pandemic will be eradicated and vaccines can protect humanity and that it will be a very prosperous year' Jose' Dsmar Cnerente OO33 R. Gustavo Maciel, 21-73 (14) 3161-3300 Among the actions to support the community were Financial Education lectures were held and food was collected for the \V World Day of the Poor, promoted by\the Diocese of Baum. Our agency was highlighted in Commercial Credit in Centra\ PR/SP/RJ and in internal campaign of the Cooperative in the first season. In 2020, despite, unfortunately, the pandemic that shook the world, Sicredi, as always in times of crisis, became successful, pioneered and the power of growth and resilience of this institution is impressive. And it was a very special year for Our agency closed the year with almost R$400 thousand in net income. A year of struggle and achievement and we thank everyone. In 2021, we first hope for a cure for the pandemic and We continue to develop, bringing more and more people to the cooperative segment and I am sure that Sicredi will continue to grow and so will our agency, offering an excellent service to HD5505 members. Rafael Simioni Manager 0034 2020 was a year of overcoming for everyone, especially for me: at Sicredi we managed to achieve our goals: and achieve hysterical results, even with a very challenging and delicate year facing the 3 Covid pandemic—‘l9. All of this It was thanks to the focus on helping our associates, being closer and doing things together. In Z021, we can say that it will, in fact, be the year of hope, a year in which everyone hopes for better days with the Coronavirus vaccine, the resumption of business, commerce and the long-awaited handshake, hugs and being together and closer. Once we achieve all that the new year promises us, the most exciting thing is that we will have the inauguration of the Sicredi branch in Brotas, which will certainly be a great success. Robson Macacari Manager Av. Elyseu Lourengéo, 2 2 Brotas/SP The activities began with a letter within the AClB (Commercial and Industrial Association of Brotas) where the first steps were taken in search of partnerships, such as the Municipal City Hall, which allowed the granting of more than RS 15 million in Consigned Credit, in addition to the marketing of products and services 63 and prospecting for members. New businesses were developed with this local team that, engaged and committed to results, enabled the construction of the new agency with delivery scheduled for 2021. With a modern, bold structure that presents an innovative concept, the agency will have a Coworking space for the use of our associates, a location that will allow the construction of close and business-focused relationships. 0035 Av. Presidente Vargas, 805 (18) 3821-8899 The Dracena agency achieved good results in 2020, exceeding its goals in Credit, Investments and Consortiums. The advancement in these products highlighted the performance of the team, which is made up of 11 employees and is always dedicated to offering the best service. In a movement of solidarity, food baskets were collected in partnership with Mercado Bahia, which is a member of the cooperative, and later these foods were distributed to families in the city, who were in a state of poverty, as a form of support. 2020 was a year of overcoming, in which we believe in the new and make it happen with excellent results. In 2021 we will use our learning and experience from 2020 and start with the certainty that it is possible to achieve, even in the face of adversity, challenges, pandemic and quarantine and that a lot of things can be done differently and make things happen. Marcos Manhani Manager 0036 F F‘ I I l*~l.'1."G.€Z?\!$ R. Dep. M. J. Fernandes, 22 (14) 3406-3245 Thanks to the good relationship with bodies pdbﬂcos The Garga agency was highlighted in the municipality's internal campaign, the agency expanded its offer of Cooperative Credit in the 1st semester, Consigned to funders/rivers of these institutions, granting more than R3 5 million in 2020. At the beginning of and everyone it remained that The agency's team of collaborators carried out a _ _ N . . . Indecision about what will happen‘ We had a collection of Hmpeza materials that were donated. . . I'm afraid of how much the financial market will be for the Secretariat for Assistance and Development. No, .. Im ado and we weren't sure what Irla SoCa\ de Garca. The commitment is part of a series. . happen, but contrary to perspectives, of sofﬂate actions that seek to contribute to )\ . our agency surprised the results, Wocal community. delivering twice as much as planned, so in numbers it was wonderful. In Z021 we hope to exceed expectations in the same way as 2020, achieving success, with a team of collaborators united to deliver even better results to our associates and continue contributing to the local community. Ana Carolina Lima Manager 0037 Agency |nL'Ibia Paulista Av. Leéo Miguel Bannwart, 20 (18) 3556-194 Cocipa Our agency's partnership with Cocipa became even stronger during the pandemic p0i5, together, we built solutions for members with discounts on specific merchandise (coffee, milk and cookies) for 0 Day C through registration on the application Sicredi Conecta, reinforcing intercooperation and fulfilling our role of contributing to a more collaborative society. Award The agency gained recognition with the “Ana Highlights” award, promoted by the Impact group of communication by country5 of ﬁnancial education carried out for students and teachers of DRE —EE de Lucélia. ll We at Sicredi also had to adapt in the search to make it even more cliferent without perceiving our essence, looking at the centrality of the associate and the ing the desires of our community. Thus, we end arm 2, looking back. We are sure that everything was for us to mature and move forward together. Sicredi has always been and is at the [adoption of our associates, involving our employees and participating in the communities and in these days we are living in we are increasingly sure that we will continue to move forward together in this new year. Marcos Peruchi Oerente 0038 Agency :52 Jan] Consigned Credit Um 1:105 highlights from the toi agency The strengthening of partnerships with the City Hall and Unimed Jati, which provided greater Co ed Credit Freedom for employees of the entities5. General Credit The biggest achievement of the deJaL1 agency is exceeding the Credit target by 343%. This was a product that stood out thanks to the team's commitment to results and growth. ll mi: £171: ». P181‘! IV“ R. Amaralﬁurgel, 817 (14) 3601-1919 New post From the partnership with UnimedJaL1, the installation of a Sicredi service point inside the new hospital. The structure will have a modern layout and is prepared to serve local members. An unusual year that made us change habits, routines, our consumption and relationships, both personal and professional. A challenging year, but together, despite the distance, we managed to reinvent ourselves. We feel the loss of beloved associates and business closures. we invested in and contributed to the continuity of activities commercial and professional people with projects that brought encouragement in difficult times. Once again, cooperation showed its strength. Marcelo Alvarez G 9 re nte 0039 re.' 'EJl¥." Av. Nelson Spielmann, 6 (14) 3454-7676 The biggest highlights of the agency in 2020 were the In 2020 we held the inauguration of the new agency partnerships for granting Payroll Credit . One with more than 1,000 m1 and 24 parking spaces. Consércio action, held in November, with a modern structure The agency has a coworking space in a prominent position among more than 700 that can be used by members guaranteeing agencies in Central PR/SP/RJ. Even more convenience for carrying out business. The agency's large numbers show growth of 400% in the Consortium Portfolio, 350% in Investment Funds and 200% in Savings and Dep;>s in general\ and more than doubled Credit Operations. This is a significant development in products. Z020 was a year of many discoveries, a new normal and, for the agency, a year of many achievements with the increase in the number of employees, the new structure, the delivery of considerable numbers, in addition to the various partners. A year of many blessings for our team. In 2021, 05 challenges continue, however, this year we continue to reap the fruits of all the work in 2020 and we will focus on the membership with a team extremely prepared to serve the community. Lived in Godoy Cnerente 0040 Av. Rio Branco. 1153 (14) 210 67 With a Life Insurance campaign, carried out by Mapfre, the Rio Branco agency hired 146 agents, with a social nature. a hundred lives several financial education lectures held in sheltered colleges Como Medicine de Mari/Iia and Univem, in addition to FATEC. One of the great highlights of the Rio Branco agency was winning the Raiffeissen prize from our Centrai Sicredi PR/SP/RJ for the good development of the actions of the cooperative's social programs that involve Crescer, Educacéo Financeira, Dia C among other initiatives. 2020 was a challenging year for all of humanity in every way: survival, health, emotional, financial, professional, as we have never experienced a pandemic like this. We had to adapt, reinvent ourselves, live with the “new normal” in the face of everything that presented itself. We ended 2020 with a lot of learning, gratitude for having our family, collaborators, associates and friends with 5aII1de. We have to celebrate 05 results achieved in this scenario. 2021 is the year of hope, the arrival of the vaccine. May humanity heal and, above all, our economy recover, grow again and provide jobs. We are a link and we are all interconnected, cooperating with each other to help mL'1tua‘I believe in a very prosperous and happy 2021 for all of us. Elaine Delacosta Manager Av. Brasil, 729 ( 4) 3283-8686 2020 was a very different year with many challenges and we had to adapt to achieve success at the Pederneiras agency, even in the face of the unprecedented scenario caused by the pandemic in which we often feel afraid. Our team came together in the face of the new and we exceeded expectations, achieving highly satisfactory results. For Z021 we have high expectations of achieving even greater growth, not only in our agency, but throughout the country. Furthermore, We hope that the cure will happen and we will no longer have to lose so many lives that were lost to the disease last year. Here’s to a happy and prosperous year FIOVO Edilson Sala Manager O04‘! As a solidary action, the Pederneiras team used cooperation to collect hygiene materials and geriatric diapers for the city's Asphylum. The Pederneiras agency stood out in the Credit product in 2020, reaching 100% of the annual target\ in August and also demonstrated good performance in the product Life Insurance that\canQou 200% of the target annuities\ in September. 0042 Av. Cyro Ventura Barbora, 235 (14) 3405-4040 Mr .-5' "" ‘L 1-2;! umnosmosos » 'lhIII&neouug. The agency's net result deserves to be highlighted for "“"'°“"It will surpass RS 1 million in the year 2020, thanks to the dedication and efforts of the entire team which, in support of business, also took actions to community As a collection of hygiene kits and Hmpeza materials for the Home for the Elderly in Pompeii. If we say that 2020 was a good year, we will be unfair to many people, as many families lost loved ones, many who became sick, unemployed or experiencing difficulties. It was really a very complicated year. But in the context of our agency we were able to deliver 5 planned objectives, ensuring that our main strategic goals were achieved even in the face of difficulties. So, 56 we can conclude that, despite everything, it was a year of gratitude, as well as a lot of learning and hard work. From Z021 I hope it will be a good, happy year, where we can work steadfastly, looking to the future, to our strategic objectives and continue to be grateful for everything we have. We will work with a focus on results, member centrality, contribution to the city and dedicated to the future opening of a branch in a new space that will bring even greater and better functionalities. Rafael Silva G 9 re nte H§‘R‘.' ".1. mm Av.Tabaiara.1234 (14) 3691-1000 The Tupa agency was highlight in investment and consortium products, where it reached 100% of the annual target in the 1st semester. Furthermore, its close relationship with the City Hall and other Municipal Bodies offering Payroll Credit guarantees excellent results for Cooperative 63 for the member. Actions were taken to collect basic food baskets and food in general for philanthropic institutions in the city as a form of cooperation for people in need. 0043 The year of 2020 was very challenging and adaptable, where we had to accelerate our technological knowledge and, through them, continue the achievements [of our associates. And we won. Even in such a complicated time, with a fluctuating financial market, our agency achieved excellent results with dedicated work to offer the best service to our members. Already 2021 signals to be a promising year, of great achievements, where we will dedicate ourselves intensely to the search for ﬁnancial results, with numbers even more expressive than last year, in addition to mobilizing ourselves in social actions for the community. And we will be able to show once again that together we will win. Alexandre Mosquera Manager 0044 Social Networks Big Numbers (D /sicredicentrooestepaulista WTERAQOES AND TOTAL REACH ENOAJAMENTO Centro Oeste Pauhsta v\zuALIzAgOEs DA PAQINA |E|- E1 VISWAS TO PERHL Sitredx Centro Oeste Paulista 0045 0 Sicredi Centro Oeste Paulista EX'B TIME|CAO H\|SCR\TOS WSUAUZAQAO @www.sicredicentrooestepaulista.combr ENGAGED SESSCES VIEWS INTERACTIONS Sicredi USERS