3 , n .,G_ __ ' . ‘ 71 Code fie, .% J Conduct .3? What you will find ’ Our code The Sicredi Code of Conduct is a map of values, a set of guidelines, a reference for moral and ethical conduct to guide our actions and decisions. Provides a standard of behavior to be followed by everyone, in internal and external relations, with colleagues, associates, other cooperatives, financial institutions, partners, suppliers, press, competitors, government and community. We are all subject to the business practices and professional conduct guidelines of the Code of Conduct, reducing the subjectivity of interpretations of what is meant by moral and ethical principles, with objective criteria for the management of conflicts of inappropriate conduct in relation to our values . HIIIE Target Pijblico Sicredi is made for all of us, but the responsibility for our actions is individual. Therefore, this Code of Conduct guides relationships internal and external of all Sicredi members, regardless of their roles and responsibilities. We hope that each collaborator incorporates the references included in the attitudes and practices of day-to-day work, internally or externally to the System's entities. Upon the adhesion of each Sicredi collaborator, which must be duly formalized, each one is expected to be a self-manager of the best conduct described in this instrument. For the purposes and effects of this Code and any other provisions, any and all references to the term collaborator, will cover all people formally linked to Sicredi, via contract and/or statutory provisions. HIIIIE Our values ​​The set of cooperative principles has determined Sicredi's values ​​since its inception and supports the growth and achievements achieved over time, influencing the behavior of all people who, directly or indirectly, are part of this enterprise. You essential variables that govern us How the System has continually guided our decisions in business and the people with whom we interact. Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business Free and voluntary membership; democratic control by members; the economic participation of members; the autonomy and independence of cooperative entities; continued information, training and cooperative education; systemic cooperation and intercooperation; and concern for the community These are the cooperative principles that govern any and all attitudes of Sicredi employees. Thus: We promote a culture of cooperation. We believe that it is essential to create conditions so that people can grow, socially and economically, through cooperative ventures; We support the communities in which we operate. We believe that with the socioeconomic development of communities, cooperativism becomes stronger; Sicredi is cooperative by nature. We allocate our efforts to meet the common needs of cooperatives and their members; We prioritize the collective interests of the System. We make responsible decisions and are vigilant with the resources we manage; Sicredi maintains political-party neutrality. HIIIIE Respect $1 member's individuality Any and all forms of prejudice, discrimination and harassment are repudiated, Sicredi assuming a commitment to investigate and confront situations of humiliation and intimidation. Thus: We do not judge people by their differences. We promote an inclusive environment. We value the uniqueness of people. EIIIIH Valuing and developing people Sicredi enables and encourages the full development of the individual potential of collaborators. Thus: We value a healthy work environment, with opportunities for growth and professional challenges; We promote professional growth in a merit-based manner. We ensure that each one develops his talents attentively within his personal characteristics; We believe that it is by talking that we understand each other and evolve. We value clear and transparent communication, which inspires initiative, creativity and problem-solving as a team. Preservation of the institution as a System Sicredi recommends that we should always work observing economies of scale, specialization and sharing of activities. Thus: As a cooperative credit system, we are organized into 3 (three) levels: Individual Cooperatives, Central Cooperatives and Companies in the Administrative Center, each with its specific function and its own governance structure organization and, as a whole, as a System, obtaining efficiency gains, we have a structured and participatory systemic decision-making process; We comply with and enforce the corporate acts of the entities that make up the System, in order to preserve the nature of the institutions that make up it; Our model of governance values ​​Singular cooperatives. We understand that they are the basis of our System, providing services directly to members. EIIIIE Respect for official and internal regulations Sicredi is committed to and respects official and internal regulations, which must be strictly followed. Thus: with external and/or internal regulations; with natural or legal persons, service providers or service takers, with unqualified suitability and reputation; in accordance with the Laws applicable, with the efforts of competent government bodies, to prevent, detect and report any illegal action; as well as situations that generate prejudiced exposure of children and adolescents; or expose the vulnerability of individuals and groups, that cause mistreatment of animals or that may stimulate or induce environmental damage; resource or object belonging to Sicredi, its associates and collaborators, is subject to the appointment of disciplinary sanctions provided for in Law, with due proof; in the development of our businesses. Efficiency and transparency in management Sicredi maintains its commitment to registering accounts and accounts in a correct, consistent, accurate, true and complete manner, with a level of detail and contextualization that ensures the transparency inherent to the credit cooperative business. Thus: We contribute to any actions to monitor and verify practices, originating from public authorities and regulatory and inspection entities. the markets where Sicredi operates; We adopt information protection rules and practices. We protect confidential, personally identifiable information obtained from/or about a member, and recognize the obligation to keep such information secure and confidential; We do not use confidential information, obtained through professional performance, for our own benefit; We provide information about associates to external companies only when necessary for the conduct of business and the correct compliance with applicable law, protecting such information against fraud or other integrity investigation activity; We purchase goods and services based on price, quality, performance and suitability for the entity's needs. We do not encourage, and we avoid, transactions that are or may even have the appearance of improper or legitimate; We do not support arbitrary decision-making practices and approval of expenses outside the rules and regulations conferred by each body existing decision-making process in the System. Code of Conduct in practice Making a decision is not always easy. Whenever we need to make a decision, we can take into account some reflections. I took into account I know all the laws, “I considered all the facts.” . . . all Identtftquet Put: as . all options possible values ​​of interests and the consequences Sicredi Professional attitude and care for our brand and image We need to understand the consequences of actions that constitute violations of official and internal regulations. There is information about these consequences available to everyone. If you notice violations of laws, regulations, self-regulations or actions that go against our guidelines and rules, it is your duty to communicate these deviations in conduct to the manager or through the appropriate channels, under penalty of collusion. We must assume appropriate posture in clothing and communication with the internal and external public, as well as in our attitudes in the Desktop. These positions must be in accordance with the guidelines adopted by Sicredi entities, within the scope of their competence. Both in internal and external environments, we continue to represent Sicredi. Therefore, you must adopt social conduct compatible with Sicredi's good image, never displaying the company's name on occasions or in places that are not in harmony with the System's principles and values. Acting in a cooperative, simple, close and active way is part of of our lives in any situation — whether real or virtual. Only the areas responsible for disseminating information and communicating with the internal and external public can disclose, monitor what is disclosed and answer questions from members and internet users on official profiles. We must all know and put into practice the brand's rules and be aware of the technical areas responsible for managing it. Ensuring the correct use of the brand and Sicredi's good reputation is everyone's responsibility. Interviews for media outlets regarding institutional information, products and services are only granted to spokespeople defined by the management of each entity. If you receive a request to speak on behalf of Sicredi at events or in contact with the press, you must forward it to the local Communications area or its Central. In the exercise of our professional activities, we do not perform business acts, merely liberally, on behalf of Sicredi nor do we offer or accept from anyone any personal advantage, whether direct or indirect. Likewise, we do not tolerate relationships and activities linked to terrorism, the sale of drugs or illegal products. EIIIIE Respect for people We treat all people with respect and dignity, without embarrassment with gestures, words or attitudes and we do not tolerate any form of prejudice, discrimination and harassment, whether physical or psychological. We attract and capture all talents without discriminating your special needs. We adapt our structures to receive and welcome everyone equally. Furthermore, we expect our associates, partners and companies with whom we interact to act in the same way. Working conditions We are committed to not allowing child labor or slavery to be carried out within our environment. Therefore, we do not hire labor that involves the extortion of forced labor or child labor. We also demand the adoption of this practice by our partners and suppliers. Our hiring of young apprentices, interns and employees is carried out in accordance with Brazilian Law. We do not employ teenagers under the age of 18 in places that are harmful to their training, physical, psychological, moral and social development, as well as in dangerous or unsanitary places and services or at times that do not allow them to be on guard. HIIIIE Transparency of professional and commercial relationships N60 we conduct transactions commercial activities with associates or third parties who fail to provide adequate proof of their identities and businesses. It is also prohibited to transact using any documentation that is not accepted by regulatory bodies, or even in cases where altered or misleading documentation is presented, or also in the case of electronic/digital transactions, if not. current regulations are met. As managers, we serve as examples of transparency and conduct, as much as E1 technical competence and habitability as in day-to-day activities and conduct. We close deals in the name of Sicredi, without being authorized. Likewise, you should not accept undue advantages by benefiting from your position at Sicredi. Confidentiality Financial information regarding Sicredi, its entities, its associates or managed investment funds are the property of Sicredi and confidential, unless have been disseminated through reports to associates or quotaholders, or published in newspapers or other media, or public information made available to regulatory bodies. You must not disclose them or publicize them. Information not published by Sicredi for external use may only be transmitted to third parties if their knowledge is necessary and if it favors a legitimate commercial purpose, in accordance with information security regulations. To the Information must be transmitted with the express understanding that it is confidential and must be used exclusively for the restricted purpose for which it was received or delivered. Access to member information other than for a legitimate commercial purpose is prohibited, based on the need for their knowledge to carry out Sicredi's business. You, as well as all Sicredi collaborators, are responsible for understanding the obligations to protect confidentiality and security member information. Confidential information from competitors, presented to Sicredi in relation to the purchase of products or services, must be kept strictly confidential. You must avoid giving or receiving inappropriate information from any competitor. EIIIIE Preservation of the environment and heritage Preservation of the environment is something that must be a habit for all of us, therefore, we do not accept the misuse of natural resources and waste of any nature and We developed eco-efficiency practices in all entities of the System. We provide safe and healthy working conditions, and we also promote educational initiatives that increase the perception and sensitivity of all collaborators regarding the topic. It is your commitment to know and be familiar with the safety and health procedures discussed on the premises of the Workplace. N60 we allow you to DOSSUCI 2/OR COHSUITICI illicit drugs and cilcool in environments and work stages. The carrying of weapons is also prohibited, except by people expressly authorized and who are responsible for the safety of other collaborators and the company's assets. You must ensure the appropriate use of materials, equipment and work tools provided by Sicredi, and must only use them to carry out professional activities. In the case of portable equipment and cellular telephones, when used and removed from the premises, they must be observing the provisions of the relevant regulations, contracts and regulations. Interest limitation Extra activities, of a professional nature, should not affect the activities carried out at Sicredi, as a result of the final activity of the System, fourth of the time that you make your activities available. Whenever you engage in an activity other than working at Sicredi, it is your responsibility to ensure that your work performance is not impaired. Airida Therefore, it must be clear that work or provision of services, whether remunerated or not, that conflict with the functions and interests of Sicredi, are not permitted. If you are involved in another company and/or are part of a company, or any other type of paid activity, you must communicate this to your manager. Pharmaceuticals owned by Sicredi that make reference to the nEia System must be used in personal activities. Often, gifts and/or gifts are offered gifts for _farnecedares/commercial partners, and for associates. Gifts worth up to a third of the minimum wage may be accepted — as long as they are not contrary to the aspects addressed in this Code. In all situations we must share with our manager, to define the best destination for what was/will be received. We must share situations of conflict of interests with the manager, in a transparent manner. You must be careful and avoid canﬂites between Sicredi's interests and your personal interests and even the appearance of such conflicts. Acting in a way is not taking advantage of our privilege in Sicredi to take personal benefit, harming the Cooperative, colleagues, associates or the community itself. You must respond to any offer of a bribe, commission or individual benefit. Commissions or individual awards, in Sicredi's own campaigns, as long as they are foreseen, can be accepted. NEia acceptas no type of neglect in the function of kinship, friendship or relationship. Cases of partnership or relationship established between collaborators must be reported and managed with the manager, with the support and guidance of the People Management Area. It is our role, as a co-worker, to seek help whenever necessary. EIIIIE Satjdefinanceira Therefore, you are responsible for keeping your financial commitments within payment capacity, honoring your commitments and your image as a collaborator of the System, as well as avoiding restrictions in credit protection bodies, returns of bad checks, charges in court, among others. nor divert money and information from Sicredi and its associates in any way. In addition to the applicable sanctions, these acts have serious impacts on the image and reputation of the System. achieved thanks to their position or function at Sicredi. Click here to access Tips for Conduct in Practice, a complement to the Code, to facilitate understanding with some practical, non-exhaustive examples of expected and unexpected behaviors for you! Access channels for suggestions and concerns To report situations relating to Sicredi's Code of Conduct, you may bring them to the attention of your immediate manager, or through the Link in accordance with your judgment, considering that: