Notice Social Fund 202 2 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 1 - INTRODUCTION The Sicredi Social Fund aims to support entities, activities or projects that, due to the amount received, generate benefits, improvements for people in local communities and that bring prosperity to society where Sicredi is present, without necessarily being committed to offering benefits to the supporter (Sicredi), such as the dissemination of the brand and returns on investments, among others. 2 - OBJECTIVE The Social Fund meets Sicredi's purpose, which is to build a more prosperous society together. That is, the Social Fund aims to strengthen actions developed by entities in the municipalities that are in Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR's area of ​​operation, that are associated with the supporting Cooperative and that act for the benefit of the community in which they are located, highlighting the Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship causes: Cooperation, Education and Local Development. This Social Fund will not be used to fund the entities' cash flow, events (even for commemorative dates) or sponsorships. 3 - PARTICIPATING COOPERATIVE: Sicredi Celeiro MT/ RR MUNICIPALITIES IN THE OPERATION AREA BENEFITED IN 2022 BY THE FUND Municipalities of Sinop, Sorriso, Nova Ubiratã, Feliz Natal, Vera, Cláudia, União do Sul and Santa Carmem and Districts of Boa Esperança, Água Limpa and Spring. 4 - ADMINISTRATION The Social Fund will be administered by the Executive Board and coordinated by the Relationship area, with support from the Regional and Local Committees, which will report to the Board of Directors of the respective cooperative. 5 - TYPES OF PROJECTS Social Fund resources will be used to support projects related to Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship causes, in the following aspects: 5.1 COOPERATION Everything that comes from Sicredi starts from a common starting point: doing it together. We believe that the The strength of the collective makes the world a better place. Therefore, cooperation is fundamental when supporting causes. If the cause was born in the same way as us, from people who came together to make a difference, it is very likely that it has everything to do with us. This cause includes projects that focus on teamwork, which promote cooperation/collaboration between people, such as collective sports activities, social hackathons, social mobilization and integration, among others. 5.2 EDUCATION Education transforms, broadens horizons and builds a fairer society. Therefore, this is also an important area of ​​activity for Sicredi. Educating is sharing knowledge and cooperating so that people can create a better future. When we support education, we drive transformations and generate a positive impact, not only for an individual, but also for society. This cause includes projects that promote education local. 5.3 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT We always need to think about supporting actions that target the community in which Sicredi is located. We understand that taking care of a local initiative can generate a great impact, as long as this initiative responds to the real needs of the people involved in that region. Solving real needs makes all the difference. This cause includes initiatives that support the local development of the communities in which Sicredi is present. inserted, helping as many people as possible. Examples: projects that promote social inclusion, strengthening and diversification of the local economy, environmental protection and the rational use of natural resources, entrepreneurship and social mobilization. 6 - RESOURCES 6.1 THE FORM OF DISTRIBUTION OF RESOURCES The cooperative Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR will define, through Local and Regional Committees set up to evaluate the projects, the proposals that will be considered and the value granted to each one. The amount allocated for support will be decided based on the relevance and social impact of the initiative, at the discretion of the Regional Committee. 6.2 BENEFITED ENTITIES Beneficiary entities must be legally constituted and must present a copy of their articles of incorporation (statute or articles of incorporation and proof of registration with the CNPJ). The benefited entities must be associated and have regular transactions with the Sicredi cooperative MT/RR Barn. Projects developed by public or private schools, or entities linked to public bodies, cannot benefit from the Social Fund. If there are projects developed by entities or associations – whose creation did not occur within a school and has no link with it, but which use school structures for their development, these are considered subject to approval for use of resources from the Social Fund. They will only be non-profit entities are included. 6.3 DEADLINES a) Project registration period: from April 11th to May 31st, 202 2 b) Evaluation of projects by the Local Committee (agency): from 1st to 1st June 2020 2 c) Evaluation of projects by Regional Committee (cooperative): from June 17th to 30th, 2022 d) Announcement of results: July 2nd, International Cooperative Day. 6.4 SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL METHOD Projects must be registered on the website www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade . To register for the project, you must register and log in to the platform. Project registration goes through six stages and each of them must be completed in accordance with the number of characters available for each field, and texts that exceed the standard limit of the form may be disregarded. Only projects registered within the deadline will be submitted to the Committees for consideration. 6.5 USE AND PROOF OF INVESTMENTS The funds will be released up to 15 working days after the signing of the Donation Term (model to be indicated by Sicredi), which establishes the commitment of the beneficiary entity to carry out the contemplated project. When the purchase of project items is made by the entity and not by Sicredi, it is mandatory to present an invoice to the Cooperative, for the value of the project, proving the purchase. The benefited entities must include in the minutes of meeting of its board of directors to receive the resources, the purpose and record the commitment to the correct application of the amount received. These minutes must have a notarized signature of its representatives and be sent to the Cooperative by October 2, 8, 202 2. It is recommended that the entity prepare a specific minute on this matter. If the entity does not forward the minutes, it will be disqualified from the Social Fund next year. In addition to the signed Donation Term, invoices and minutes with recognized signature, the entities must send to the respective Agencies, photographic records that prove the application of the resource in the registered and approved project. The sending of photographic records must be carried out by October 2, 8, 2022. The beneficiary entity will have the current year's deadline to use the resources received, following the guidance in the previous paragraphs that require the presentation of a copy of the minutes. If the resource is not used within the stipulated period, the entity will be disqualified from the Social Fund for the next year, except for exceptions approved by the Regional Cooperative Committee. The entity will only have its registration validated for new projects after proving the use of resources. 6.6 DISCLOSURE OF THE SOCIAL FUND To publicize all members and society, the Social Fund will be publicized on the project website and in the press. By signing up, entities will agree to have their name, as well as the name of the project and its representatives, as well as their image, disclosed in any and all Social Fund materials. Entities that register with the Fund, whether or not the project is approved, hereby agree to this disclosure, as well as authorizing the use of images, voices, photos and videos of its members, as well as those directly and indirectly benefited by it, in any and all material such as photos, documents and other means of communication, even disclosed in promotional and institutional materials and campaigns of any Sicredi Cooperative or company. This authorization/release is granted free of charge and for an indefinite period, covering the use of my image, voice, photos and videos, in all its forms, such as: (I) out-door; (II) bus-door; (III) leaflets in general (inserts, direct mail, catalogue, etc.); (IV) presentation folder; (V) advertisements in magazines and newspapers in general; (VI) home page; (VII) posters; (VIII) back-light; (IX) electronic media (panels, videotapes, television, cinema, radio programs, inserts, diaries, calendars, among others), social networks (e.g.: Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram). If advertising material for the project is produced by the entity, they must disclose in their materials the financial support through the Sicredi Social Fund, observing the Sicredi brand usage manual. Furthermore, entities with contemplated projects that carrying out activities (such as workshops, lectures, presentations) may place in a visible place, during its execution, a banner or banner, with due credits, which must include the following text: “This project is being carried out with resources from the Sicredi Social Fund ”. 7 - FINAL PROVISIONS The amendment of this notice will be the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR cooperative. Omitted cases will be decided by the Regional Committee or the Board of Directors. Cooperative Administration. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR