Sicr edi C eleiro MT /RRÍndiceSicredi Celeiro MT/RR 06 BYLAWS OF THE CREDIT, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT COOPERATIVE SORRISO SICREDI CELEIRO MT/RR CHAPTER I NAME, HEADQUARTERS, JURISDICTION, AREA OF ACTION, DURATION AND INTEGRATION TO SICREDI Section I Name , Headquarters, Forum, Area of ​​Action and Term of Duration Art. 1 The Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, established at the general meeting of February 10, 1990, originally designated Cooperativa de Crédito Rural Sorriso Ltda - Credisol, is a financial institution, cooperative society, non-profit and with limited liability, governed by current legislation and these Bylaws, with: I - headquarters, administration and legal venue at Avenida Natalino João Brescansin , 124, Centro, Sorriso, CEP 78.896-072, in the State of Mato Grosso. II - area of ​​action, always endorsed by Central Sicredi Centro Norte, limited to the following municipalities in the state of Mato Thick: Sinop, Feliz Natal, Vera, Sorriso, União do Sul, Claudia, Santa Carmem and Nova Ubiratã; and also to the following municipalities in the state of Roraima: Alto Alegre, Amajari, Boa Vista, Bonfim, Cantá, Caracaraí, Caroebe, Iracema, Mucajaí, Normandia, Pacaraima, Rorainópolis, São João da Baliza, São Luiz and Uiramutã. III - indefinite duration.Section II Integration into Sicredi Art. 2º The Company, by joining the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the North Center of Brazil - Central Sicredi Centro Norte, hereinafter referred to as “Central”, integrates, with this and other affiliates, the Sicredi – Cooperative Credit System, also governed by its regulations. § 1 The Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi or System is the set of individual Credit Cooperatives, their respective Central Cooperatives, the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (Confederação Sicredi), Sicredi Participações S/A (SicrediPar) and all legal entities of which these participate directly or indirectly, the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi) and Sicredi Fundo Garantidores (SFG). § 2 The Cooperative may only disaffiliate from Central Sicredi Centro Norte, on its own initiative or from the Central itself, when it falls within the operational limits established by current legislation. § 3 The disaffiliation of the Cooperative, on its initiative, also depends on the agreement: I - of the majority of its associates, to become independent; II - the majority of voting members representing at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, to join another central credit cooperative. §4 In the cases provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, the participation and expression of the respective Center is guaranteed in all stages of the procedure. § 5º The entry and permanence of the Cooperative in the System, as well as the use of the Sicredi brand, are conditioned to the compliance, in particular: I - with systemic standards on the use of the brand, participation in guarantee funds and the implementation of the Crescer and Pertencer programs, in accordance with specific regulations; II - the limits relating to asset strength and liquidity, in accordance with 07Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 08official regulations and in compliance with the standards internally deﬁned by the System; III - Sicredi's official regulations and internal regulations. § 6 Failure to comply with any of the The requirements referred to in items I to III of the previous paragraph will result in the application of actions and sanctions provided for in Sicredi's Internal Regulations (RIS), without prejudice to being subject to other sanctions provided for by law. § 7º The Central, whenever it deems necessary, will implement a co-management regime in the Cooperative, on a temporary basis and through the signing of an agreement, with the aim of assisting it to remedy irregularities or in case of risk to the solidity of the society itself or the solidity and/or or image of the Sicredi System, in accordance with current legislation and internal regulations. § 8 Membership in the Center automatically constitutes solidarity with the Cooperative, under the terms of the Brazilian Civil Code, limited to its assets, in relation to: I - the obligations for participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service; II - obligations incurred due to movements in the bank reserve account, accessed through Banco Sicredi, and the use of liquidity lines; III - loans taken out by the Central and Banco Sicredi, with the purpose of financing activities of the Cooperative's members or all other affiliates. § 9 Integration into Sicredi also implies subsidiary responsibility of the Cooperative, in relation to the loans mentioned in § 6 of this article, when the beneficiaries of the resources are members of individual cooperatives affiliated to other central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi. § 10. Responsibility provided for in the previous paragraph may only be invoked after judicial demand from the Cooperative itself to which the beneficiaries of the resources are associated and from the respective Central.§ 11. The Central must supervise the operation of the affiliate, with a view to compliance with legislation and regulations in force and also Sicredi's own rules, being able to examine accounting books and records and other papers, documents and information/data related to its activities, and keep at the disposal of the Central Bank of Brazil, or even promptly forward to it, if serious or urgent reasons so require, the reports resulting from the verification. § 12. The co-responsibility provided for in §§ 8 and 9 of this article, plus the financial contributions destined to the funds of Sicredi Fundos Garantidores, in accordance with its own regulations, make up a system of reciprocal guarantees. § 13. To Central Sicredi Centro Norte, as coordinator of the actions of the System in its area of ​​activity, as well as the Sicredi Confederation, formed by the central cooperatives that are members of Sicredi, are granted powers of representation, notably for negotiations with companies and entities, including members of Sicredi itself, government bodies and authorities. § 14. The expression "legislation" includes laws, decrees and regulatory and complementary legal norms. 09Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 10CHAPTER II OF THE CORPORATE OBJECT Art. 3º A The cooperative's corporate purpose is: I - to carry out credit cooperative operations, including housing financing, in accordance with current legislation and regulations; II - provide its members, including through an agreement with a public or private entity, in accordance with current regulations, with access to insurance products, pension plans, consortiums, issuance and acquisition of cards and other means of payment, clearing of checks and other roles, credit with official resources or transferred by other financial institutions, exchange, savings, investment funds and clubs, and any other financial and non-financial product and service, not prohibited by current legislation; III - develop and implement educational, research, teaching and institutional development programs, among others, that have as their object the practice of cooperativism, entrepreneurship, citizenship, sustainable development and others universal values. § 1 In all aspects of its activities, the principles of political neutrality and religious, racial and social indiscrimination will be strictly observed. §2 The Cooperative may, at its discretion, make available to non-members all financial and non-financial products and services permitted or not prohibited by current legislation, including payment services in the modalities of acquirer and payment transaction initiator. Art. 4 The Cooperative may also, within the limits of legislation, regulation and systemic standards, participate in the capital of other companies or entities of the System, as well as avail itself of the services of the Central and other entities that are part of Sicredi, especially in relation to those activities that may be organized in common with the objective of gaining scale. Single paragraph. The Cooperative may also participate in other companies or entities, not part of the Sicredi System, including non-cooperative nature, with a view to meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the membership and the community, observing internal regulations and current legislation.11CHAPTER III OF MEMBERS: COMPOSITION, CONDITIONS OF ADMISSION, RIGHTS, DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND FORMS TERMINATION Section I Composition and Conditions of Admission Art. 5 People who agree with these Bylaws can be members of the Cooperative, fulfilling the conditions here established and are: I - natural persons who reside or carry out activities in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; II - legal entities established in the Cooperative's area of ​​action, including its administrators and partners; III - depersonalized entities established in the Cooperative’s area of ​​action; IV - individuals who have a link with the cooperative or any of its members, regardless of where they reside or carry out activity; V - other legal entities and entities depersonalized documents that have a link with the cooperative or one of its members, regardless of where they are established; VI - parents, spouse or partner, widower, child, legal dependent of a member or pensioner of a deceased member, regardless of the place where they reside or carry out activity; VII - individuals, legal entities and depersonalized entities residing or established within the area of ​​action of Central Sicredi Centro Norte, excluded, for this hypothesis, the municipalities that are in the area of ​​action of cooperatives affiliated to another Central of the Sicredi System. § 1º The number of members, unless it is technically impossible to attend, is unlimited as to the maximum, and cannot be less than 20 (twenty). § 2º To acquire the status of associate, the interested party must propose their admission, pay the number of minimum shares provided for in § 2º of the art. 12 and accept the rights and obligations arising from Sicredi Barn MT/RR 12 of this Statute. § 3º They will not be admitted to the membership of the Cooperative nor will they be able to remain there, beyond the hypotheses provided for in the legislation and observing the provisions of § 2º of the art. 11 of these Bylaws: I - anyone who, in their main activities, exercises effective competition with the main activities of the Cooperative; II - anyone who carries out activities that contradict the objectives of the Cooperative or conflict with them; III - anyone who has lost the bond of employment with the Cooperative for just cause; IV - anyone who fails to pay obligations assumed with the Cooperative for more than 180 (one hundred and eighty) days; V - anyone who causes losses of any nature to the Cooperative or Sicredi; VI - anyone who stops operating with the Cooperative, or through it, for more than 180 days; VII - anyone who carries out movements of values ​​incompatible with their financial capacity or declared activities, when evidenced; VIII - anyone who provides inconsistent or untrue information, including through a public or private document, or omits registration information and/or other information that could change the conditions of association; IX - anyone who moves amounts arising from activities considered irregular or illicit, in accordance with current legislation; X - anyone who violates contractual obligations regarding products and/or services contracted at Sicredi; XI - anyone who has registration information irregular or outdated. § 4 For the purposes of the provisions of sections IV and V of art. 5th, contractual, corporate, labor, institutional, associative and kinship relationships are considered links.13Section II Rights Art. 6th The rights of associates are: general, discussing and voting on the issues that are discussed; II - vote and be voted for elected positions in the Cooperative, observing the conditions and requirements established in applicable legislation, in this statute and in internal regulations; III - use operations and services when offered by the Cooperative and/or the System, whose remuneration and prices, when not defined in official rules, are fixed in accordance with the rules approved by the Cooperative and/or the System; IV - propose to the Board of Directors statutory and internal regulatory changes, as well as the adoption of measures in the interest of the Cooperative or Sicredi, including as a result of any irregularity found in the management of the Company or regulatory-statutory infraction committed by a member; V - propose to the Board of Directors, prior to the publication of the notice calling for the meeting, upon request of 5% (five percent) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, any matters of interest to the Society to be discussed and resolved in general meeting; VI - have access to the internal regulations of the Cooperative and the System, approved by the General Assembly; VII - have access, examine and obtain information about the financial statements for the year to be submitted to the general meeting; VIII - resign from the Cooperative when it suits him. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 14Section III Duties Art. 7 Members' duties are: I - comply with the legal provisions of these Statutes and other internal regulations of the System; II - operate regularly with the Cooperative, punctually fulfilling obligations and other commitments assumed with or through the cooperative; III - pay up the subscribed capital shares; IV - preferably, invest your savings in the Cooperative and carry out your financial operations in general with it; V - not practice, inside or outside the Cooperative, any activity that constitutes discrimination of any kind; VI - maintain, within the cooperative and at events organized by it, political neutrality and always have considering that cooperation is in the common interest, overriding individual interests; VII - keep registration information updated. Single paragraph. The dismissal, elimination or exclusion of a member implies the early maturity of all obligations contracted with the Cooperative or with other entities forming part of Sicredi, at the discretion of the Cooperative. Section IV Responsibilities Art. 8 The associates, without prejudice to the provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of this article, respond subsidiarily for the obligations contracted by the Cooperative towards third parties, up to the limit of the value of the paid-up shares and the value of the losses incurred in these operations in proportion to their participation, according to the calculation formula approved by the general assembly, with liability continuing even in cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, until the date on which the accounts for the year in which the dismissal occurred are approved by the general meeting. § 1º A The responsibility of the members, in accordance with the applicable legislation, may only be invoked after the Cooperative has been legally required, 15except in the cases set out in §§ 2 and 3 below. § 2 The members are jointly and severally liable, up to the limit of the value of the subscribed shares, for the obligations incurred by the Cooperative as a result of their participation in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, including debits in the Bank Reserves account and those arising from use of liquidity lines. § 3º Unlimitedly, with their personal assets, members who, through action or omission, intentional or negligent, cause material or moral damage to the Cooperative, will be liable. Section V Forms of Termination Subsection I Dismissal Art. 9 The member's dismissal occurs at his/her request and cannot be denied. Subsection II Elimination Art. 10 The elimination of a member will be decided by the Cooperative's Board of Directors and the reason must be included in its records, due to: I - Violation of current legislation or the Statute, when exclusion is not applicable; II - if the member fails to promptly fulfill the obligations and other commitments assumed with the Cooperative for up to 179 (one hundred and seventy-nine) days; III - violation of Sicredi’s internal regulations; IV - practice of acts that characterize reckless or fraudulent management, as a board member, auditor or director. § 1º The At the discretion of the Board of Directors, members who carry out any activity harmful to the Cooperative, act in bad faith, abuse of rights or with the intention of harming the Cooperative. § 2 The elimination will be preceded by notification to the member so that within 15 (fifteen) days they can present to the Board of Directors the reasons that, in their opinion, disqualify the infraction or act that gave rise to the notification. The Board of Directors, within the same period or at the first meeting that follows, it will assess the reasons presented and inform the member of its decision, accepting the reasons presented or eliminating it from the membership, in accordance with this Subsection. § 3 The Cooperative will communicate the elimination to the member, indicating the reason within 30 (thirty) days of its occurrence, which may be by physical or electronic means. § 4 The eliminated member may lodge an appeal within 15 (fifteen) days, counted from the notification of the elimination, in compliance with art. 51 of this Statute, with suspensive effect to the first general meeting to be held. § 5 When any advisor or director falls foul of the provisions of item III of the caput of this article, the Board of Directors, after investigating the infractions, which will be included in a speciﬁc report, will notify the investigated/offender, and may suspend or remove him or her, as per the case, preventively from its functions, while the investigation continues, giving it knowledge of the verifications made, so that within 15 (fifteen) days it can present its reasons for defense, which will be assessed by the Council within the same period or at its next meeting. § 6 In the case of § 5, the Board of Directors may request additional information, setting the deadline for its presentation, and, after analyzing these, depending on the severity of the infraction, it may warn the offender, call a meeting of the Board of Directors to deliberate on elimination or general assembly to deliberate on the dismissal, as applicable. § 7 The decision to eliminate the member, except in the case of § 5 of this article, may be delegated to the Executive Board. 17Subsection III Exclusion Art. 11 Exclusion from membership occurs through: I - dissolution of the legal entity; II - death of the individual; III - loss of civil capacity not supplied; IV - fail to meet the statutory requirements for joining or remaining in the cooperative provided for in art. 5th, §3rd, of this Statute. §1 Change of address after joining will not be considered as loss of statutory requirement for joining or remaining in the Cooperative. § 2 Exclusion based on the provisions of § 3 of article 5 of these Bylaws will be decided by the Board of Directors, which may delegate the decision to the Executive Board. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 18CHAPTER IV OF SOCIAL CAPITAL: FORMATION AND WITHDRAWAL CONDITIONS Art. 12º The share capital is unlimited in terms of maximum and variable according to the number of shares subscribed, prevailing, as a minimum, the value of R$ 2,500,000.00 (two million and five hundred thousand reais), which must be paid in current currency. § 1 The share capital is divided into shares worth R$ 1.00 (one Real). § 2 When joining the Cooperative, and to remain there, the member must subscribe and pay in at least 20 (twenty) shares. § 3 The request for reinstatement by a member dismissed, eliminated or excluded from the membership will be analyzed by the Board of Directors, which may delegate to the Executive Board, which will be responsible for defining the number of shares to be subscribed and paid in to complete its readmission. § 4 The general assembly, upon proposal by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, and without prejudice to voluntary subscriptions and payments, including linked to the composition of each member's credit limit, may also stipulate that, Extraordinarily, members subscribe and pay in new shares of capital, including defining the form, value and frequency of subscriptions and payments. § 5 In capital payments, except as described in § 2 of this article, subscription and monthly payments will be permitted, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, including through payroll deduction or debit from a deposit account. § 6º The share is indivisible and non-transferable unless members, and their subscription, completion, transfer or refund will be recorded in the Book, Registration Form or in their respective electronic register, observing that no member may hold more than 1/3 (one third) of the total quotas. § 7º The shares of the paid-in capital always respond as a guarantee for the obligations that the member assumes with the Cooperative, and it is prohibited to give them as guarantee to other members or third parties. § 8º The shares of the capital are unseizable.19§ 9º In cases of dismissal, elimination or exclusion, the paid-in capital will be refunded, plus surpluses or deduction of losses from the corresponding fiscal year, observing the provisions of Chapter IX of these Bylaws. § 10. The refund referred to in the previous paragraph will be made within 30 (thirty) days after approval, by the general meeting, of the balance sheet for the financial year in which the dismissal occurred, with payment being made in installments. by the Cooperative, starting within the same period, within up to 5 (five) years, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, considering, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative, respecting as special parameters the level of reserves of the Society and the framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 11. The installments referred to in the previous paragraph, counting from the date of the first release and until the day on which they are made available to the interested party, will be updated using an official price index to be defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors, respecting the systemic indication. § 12. The Social Capital may be refunded to the terminated member, before the general meeting referred to in § 10 of this article takes place, provided that: I - the partial result of the year in which the termination occurs presents surpluses; II - there are no losses to be compensated with future surpluses; and III - consideration should be given to financial and asset conditions of the Cooperative, respecting its framework within all asset limits required by current legislation. § 13. The member, an individual, who reaches the age of 65 (sixty-five) years and, cumulatively, has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 10 (ten) years or retires due to disability, may , exceptionally, submit to the Board of Directors a request to withdraw part of its share capital, maintaining the your status as an associate, with the minimum quota shares established in § 2 of this article. § 14. The member, a legal entity, who has been part of the Cooperative's membership for at least 20 (twenty) years may submit to the Board of Directors a request for withdrawal of up to 50% (fifty percent) Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 20de its share capital. After this period and every 5 (five) years, the member may redeem up to 50% (fifty percent) of the value of the share capital, maintaining the your status as an associate, with the minimum quota shares established in § 2 of this article. § 15. In cases involving serious illnesses, the member may submit a request to the Board of Directors for the redemption of part of their share capital, maintaining their status as a member, with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. § 16. The Board of Directors may make the criteria for partial withdrawal of share capital initiated by associates more flexible, including for the purpose of dealing with fortuitous cases, force majeure or other special situation, maintaining the status of member with the minimum shareholdings established in § 2 of this article, provided that the asset limits established by current legislation are preserved. § 17. In cases of member termination, the Cooperative must promote immediate compensation between the credit resulting from the value of their share of capital, and the total value of the debt existing with the Cooperative; those assumed by the Cooperative in its name, as well as those that the member has assumed with third parties through the co-responsibility of the Society. § 18. If the compensation mentioned in the previous paragraph occurs, the responsibility of the member disconnected from the Cooperative will last until the approval of accounts relating to the year in which he/she left the membership. In the event of a remaining outstanding balance resulting from any obligation of the terminated member, the Cooperative may collect it through the means permitted by the national legal system. § 19. The return referred to in §§ 13, 14, 15 and 16, if approved by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, will be made at the discretion of this body, taking into account, for this purpose, the financial and patrimonial conditions of the Cooperative , respecting as special parameters the level of the Company's reserves and its compliance with all asset limits required by current legislation, with the payment in installments by the Cooperative. § 20. The shares of the capital form part of the assets of the Cooperative society and cannot be used to fulfill the member's obligations with third parties, while the corporate relationship with the Cooperative continues. 21§ 21. If the member does not comply punctually with the obligations assumed with the Cooperative, the amounts owed by the Cooperative may be offset, at the discretion of the Cooperative, with their respective shares, surpluses or annual remuneration on capital shares, maintaining your status as an associate with the minimum shares established in § 2 of this article. § 22. The balances of capital, capital remuneration or surplus payables not requested by dismissed, eliminated or excluded members will be reverted to the cooperative's reserve fund after 5 (five) years of dismissal.Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 22CHAPTER V OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY: GENERAL PROVISIONS, GENERAL ASSEMBLY ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY Section I General Provisions Art. 13 The general assembly is the supreme body of the Cooperative and, within the limits of the law and these Statutes, will take any and all decisions of interest to the Society, and the deliberations are binding on everyone, even that are absent or discordant. § 1 The rendering of accounts for the end of the year, the allocation of results and the election of components of the administrative and fiscal councils, when they are matters of the agenda of the general meeting, must be previously considered in core assemblies, which may be in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means. § 2 The other matters on the agenda of the general meeting may be resolved directly in Delegates' Assemblies, unless otherwise decided by the Board of Directors. § 3 When matters are resolved only in the Assembly of Delegates, the cooperative will subsequently inform the associates. § 4 The coordination of the core assemblies will be carried out by the President of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, or by the Vice-President, or, if this is not possible, by whomever he indicates. §5 General assemblies and core assemblies may be held in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously. Art. 14 General meetings will normally be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at least 10 (ten) days, through a notice, which must be published prominently on the Cooperative's website or in a repository with unrestricted public access on the internet. § 1 The call may also be made by the Board of Directors or the Fiscal Council, or, after a request not responded to within 5 (five) days, by 1/5 (one fifth) of the members in full enjoyment of their social rights, hypothesis in which at least 4 (four) of the applicants must sign the call notice. § 2 The notice will contain, subject to current legislation: I - the name of the Cooperative, followed by the expression "Convocation of General Assembly" (Ordinary and/or Extraordinary, as the case may be); II - the day and time of the meeting, as well as the way in which it will be held; III - the agenda of the work, with the appropriate specifications; IV - the method of access to the means of communication made available for member participation, in the event of a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; V - the procedures for accessing the voting system, as well as the period for receiving votes, in the case of holding a remote meeting, or in person and remotely simultaneously; VI - the number of delegates existing on the date of its issuance, for the purpose of the installation quorum; VII - place, date, name, position/function and signature(s) of the person(s) responsible for the call. § 3 General assemblies may be held on Mondays or third calls, on the same day as the first, with a minimum interval of 1 (one) hour between each call, as long as this is expressly stated in the notice. § 4 Assemblies that are held remotely must adopt a system and technology for the participation of delegates. Art. 15 The installation quorum, determined by signatures (physical or electronic) in the Attendance Book, will be as follows: I - 2/3 (two thirds) of the number of delegates, in the first call; II - half plus 1 (one) of the delegates in second call; III - 10 (ten) delegates, in the third and final call. Single paragraph. The installation quorum must observe the number of calls adopted in the notice.Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 24Art. 16. At general assemblies, members, grouped by nuclei, will be represented by delegates, elected in accordance with this Section and specific regulations, and may attend conclaves, without, however, having their voice and vote. § 1 The delegates will deliberate on all the topics on the agenda. § 2 The mandate of the delegates will last 4 (four) years, and they may be re-elected. When electing new delegates, their mandates must coincide with the remaining time of the other delegates already elected. § 3 During the term of office, the delegate cannot simultaneously hold an elected or paid position in the Cooperative. If he is elected to a statutory position or hired as an employee of the Cooperative, he must simultaneously resign from his position. delegate post. § 4 Whenever matters are considered by members in their respective groups, the vote of the delegate at the general assemblies will be linked to the decisions taken by the group he represents. Art. 17 For the purposes of the representation referred to in art. 16, the distribution of delegate vacancies among the nuclei will be carried out based on its own regulations and the following parameters: I - the Cooperative will group its members into up to 151 (one hundred and fifty-one) nuclei, observing the specific regulations; II - the grouping of members into groups may be done considering the association conditions described in art. 5th of these Bylaws, respecting the other rules provided for in the specific regulations. Art. 18 The election of Delegates will take place in a Core Assembly, in person or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, in good time before the General Assembly of the Cooperative. § 1 One effective delegate and at least one delegate will be elected alternate, the most voted, respectively, among the members who are in full enjoyment of their social rights and who do not hold elected positions in society, respecting the other requirements set out in regulations. § 2º The election will be carried out by open or secret vote, as defined by the Cooperative's Board of Directors.25§ 3º In case of secret voting, the Cooperative's Board of Directors will define the conditions and procedures for its execution. § 4 In In the event of a tie in voting, the classification order will take into account the seniority of membership in the Cooperative. Art. 19 If it is not possible to hold the general assembly of delegates due to lack of quorum, the call for a new date will be reiterated, within a period of up to 30 (thirty) days. Single paragraph. If the general assembly does not take place under the terms of the caput, the absent delegates – effective and substitutes – will lose their mandates, immediately establishing an election process to choose new ones. delegates, in accordance with art. 18 of this Statute. Art. 20 The general meetings will be led by the President of the Board of Directors, assisted by the Vice-President or, in his absence, by another board member, who will act as secretary. § 1 In the absence of the President of the Board of Directors, the Vice-President will assume the presidency of the meeting, who will invite a board member to act as secretary. § 2º When the general assembly does not has been called by the President of the Board of Directors, the work will be chaired and served as a secretariat by a delegate or another member chosen at the time, with the main stakeholders in the call forming part of the Board. Art. 21 The delegate will not be able to represent the Center in decisions, in the General Assembly, on matters that refer directly or indirectly to him, in which case the Center will be represented by his deputy or another appointed member, as the case may be. Art. 22 Deliberations at general assemblies, carried out by open vote unless otherwise decided by the assembly itself, will be taken by a simple majority, except for matters within the exclusive competence of the extraordinary general assembly, for which a vote of 2/3 (two thirds) is required. of the delegates present. Single paragraph. Deliberations and other substantial events at meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the President of the meeting and the secretary of work, as well as by a commission of 5 (five) delegates appointed by the plenary, and by as many others as wish to do so. Art. 23 The general meeting may be suspended, allowing for continuation at a later date, as long as it is preceded by the publication of a new call notice, determining the date, time and place for the session to continue, respecting the legal quorum, as well at the opening and at the resumption(s) of work, and the agenda contained in the notice, everything duly recorded in the minutes. Single paragraph. The publication of the call notice referred to in the caput will be waived when the time lapse between the suspension and the resumption of the session does not allow compliance with the legal deadline required for that publication. Section II Ordinary General Meeting Art. 24 The ordinary general meeting will be held once a year, within the legal period, deliberating on the following matters, mentioned in the agenda: I - accountability of the management bodies, accompanied by the opinions of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, comprising: a) management report; b) balance sheets for the two semesters of the corresponding year; c) statement of surpluses or losses. II - allocation of surpluses or apportionment of losses resulting from insufficient contributions to cover the Company's expenses, deducting, in the first case, the installments for statutory funds; III - election of components of the administrative and supervisory boards; IV - fixing, at the time of the election and whenever changes are foreseen, the value of the fees, attendance cards and bonuses for the members of the Councils; V - approval of the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board at least at the beginning of each term; VI - any matters of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, excluding those under the exclusive competence of the 27th assembly extraordinary general. Single paragraph. The setting of the values ​​provided for in section IV of this article must follow Sicredi's internal regulations, applicable to the Cooperative. Section III Extraordinary General Assembly Art. 25 The extraordinary general assembly will be held whenever necessary and may deliberate on any matter of social interest, including those proposed in accordance with art. 6th, inc. V, of this Statute, as long as it is mentioned in the call notice. Single paragraph. It's yours exclusive competence to deliberate on the following matters: I - reform of the Bylaws; II - merger, incorporation or dismemberment; III - change in the Company's purpose; IV - voluntary dissolution of the Cooperative and appointment of liquidator(s); V - liquidator's accounts; VI - maintenance of the co-management regime and the adoption of other necessary legal measures. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 28CHAPTER VI THE ELECTORAL PROCESS Section I General Provisions Art. 26 The electoral process will comply with the provisions in the Electoral Code approved by the General Assembly, being conducted by an Electoral Commission set up speciﬁcally for this purpose, for each election, by deliberation of the Board of Directors of the Cooperative, ensuring its autonomy and independence, reporting operationally to the same collegiate body. CHAPTER VII ADMINISTRATION Section I Board of Directors Art. 27 The Cooperative will have a Board of Directors, a collegiate deliberation body, composed of associated individuals, with 12 (twelve) advisors, including a President and a Vice-President, constituting basic conditions for the candidacy and exercise of the position, in accordance with the requirements established below and without prejudice to the fulfillment of other complementary requirements set out in the regulations Sicredi employees: I - do not maintain, since applying, an employment relationship with any entity that is part of Sicredi, or even with a member of the board of directors, tax or the Executive Board of the Cooperative; II - not be a spouse or partner, nor be related up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, with members of the Administration and Fiscal Councils and the Executive Board; III - not be, simultaneously, an employee or administrator or hold a stake in a company that, due to its activities, is considered to compete with any of the entities that make up Sicredi or in whose capital they participate;29IV - no have held or are holding a party political position or function in the last civil year; V - meet the professional qualifications required for the position, in accordance with current legislation and in accordance with systemic regulations, compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities; VI - not having used 2 (two) or more debt renegotiations at the Cooperative or another Sicredi entity, in the last 2 (two) years; VII – have an unblemished reputation; VIII - be a resident of Country; IX - not be prevented by special law, nor convicted of a crime of bankruptcy, tax evasion, malfeasance, active or passive corruption, concussion, embezzlement, against the popular economy, public faith, property or the National Financial System , or sentenced to a sentence that prohibits, even temporarily, access to public positions; X - not be declared disqualified or suspended from holding positions in statutory or contractual bodies in institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil or in supplementary pension entities, insurance companies, capitalization companies, publicly-held companies or entities subject to the supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission; XI - not be declared bankrupt or insolvent; XII - not have, through intent or negligence, committed an irregularity that has caused any damage or damage to Sicredi's image in any of Sicredi's member entities; XIII - have operated assiduously and regularly with the Cooperative in the last two fiscal years (being an active member) and having participated in at least 2 (two) core assemblies in the last 3 (three) fiscal years; XIV - have participated, in the immediately previous year, or participated in courses and other training and recycling events scheduled by the System, depending on the nature of the position or function, without prejudice to attendance at all other events aimed at counselors during the period of your mandate, until 1 (one) year after taking office; XV - have time availability to fully comply with statutory and legal responsibilities, being prohibited the accumulation with another position or function (elective or not), which requires dedication incompatible with Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 30responsibility in the Cooperative; XVI - be exercising or have exercised, as a member or substitute, the role of Core Coordinator of the Belonging Program in the Cooperative where he is a member, or have held a position statutory in the cooperative; XVII - meet other requirements arising from the relevant legislation; XVIII - not negatively expose, or harm, directly or indirectly, the image of any entities that are part of Sicredi, its statutory members or employees, due to their position, by any means, verbal or written, or any brands owned by the entities members of Sicredi; XIX - not have suffered a sanction for an infraction of a very serious nature, in the form of Sicredi's Internal Regulations. § 1 For the purposes of section VII, the unblemished reputation will be assessed considering the existence of: criminal proceedings or police investigation; judicial or administrative process that is related to the National Financial System or the Brazilian Payment System; proceedings relating to insolvency, liquidation, intervention, bankruptcy or judicial recovery; failure to fulfill obligations; and other similar situations, occurrences or circumstances. § 2 They cannot former employees dismissed for just cause can apply for social positions, nor directors and officers who are subject to an internal investigation to investigate violations of legal or systemic norms during their term of office or who, for the same reasons, have been dismissed or resigned to the position for which they were elected. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, with renewal of at least 1/3 (one third) of the members, observing that, if the calculation results in a fractional number, it must The next higher number will be considered, and those elected will remain in office until their successors take office, allowing them, from the election onwards, to fully monitor the remaining participation of those succeeded. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 In case of licenses, absences, suspensions or temporary impediments of less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days, the President of the Council of Administration will be replaced by the Vice-President; this, by an advisor appointed by the Board itself. If the absences of the President and Vice-President are verified at the same time, the Board will appoint substitutes, from among its components. 31§ 6. In the event of a vacancy in the position of President and/or Vice-President of the Board of Directors, the advisors among them, they will designate successor(s), and the first assembly that follows will elect new occupant(s) for said position(s), whether or not the designated one(s) is confirmed, and the elected person(s) will fulfill the remaining time of the President's term(s) and/or Succeeded Vice President(s). Reducing the number of Council members to less than 3 (three), except for the President and Vice-President, new members must be elected within 90 (ninety) days, which will fill the remaining management time. § 7 The following constitute, among others, hypotheses of vacancy in the elected position: I - the loss of membership status; II - non-attendance, without prior justification, at 2 (two) consecutive or 4 (four) alternate meetings, during the course of each calendar year. It will be up to the Board of Directors to decide on the origin of the justification; III - death, resignation and dismissal, at any time, in accordance with current legislation; IV - licenses, absences, suspensions or impediments equal to or greater than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days; V - the sponsorship, as party or proxy, of legal measure against the Cooperative itself or any other entity that is part of Sicredi during the mandate, except those that aim to protect the exercise of the mandate itself; VI - the holder becomes ineligible under current regulations, or no longer meets the basic conditions for holding an elected position under the terms of this Statute. § 8 In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a political party position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the position elective in the Cooperative within 48 hours (forty-eight hours) after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. § 9 For the purposes of this Statute, political party positions are understood to be: I - Elective post - those political agents invested in their positions through electoral processes (Councillor, Mayor, State and Federal Deputy, Senator, Governor, President of the Republic), in accordance with current electoral and constitutional legislation; II - Member of party executive – people who, affiliated to a specific party, are elected to occupy executive positions in the party. They are generally elected at the party's "convention", assuming the roles of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer or equivalent positions, according to the Party's own regulations; III - Appointed, designated or delegated position – those political agents invested in their positions by appointment, designation or delegation (State Ministers, State and Municipal Secretaries). Art. 28 The Board of Directors is governed by the following rules: I - meets, ordinarily, at least every 2 (two) months, and extraordinarily whenever necessary, upon call by its President, the majority of the Board itself, or, even, at the request of the Fiscal Council; II - deliberates, validly, by a simple majority of votes, with the majority of its components present, with the President having the tie-breaking vote; III - the deliberations of the Board and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present, the content of which the President of the Board must also inform the Cooperative's Supervisory Board promptly. § 1. Meetings of the Board of Directors will be convened, preferably in writing, with the use of electronic means of communication being permitted. § 2 No advisor may participate in discussions and deliberations that involve financial transactions or any other matters that imply a conflict of self-interest, or that concern your relatives up to the 2nd (second) degree, in a direct or collateral line, spouse, partner or employees. § 3 Meetings of the Board of Directors may be in person, remotely, or in person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 29 In addition to other duties arising from legislation and this Statute, It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, observing the details provided for in systemic regulations: I - to establish the strategic direction of the Cooperative and monitor the execution and fulfillment of the planning approved by it;33II - to monitor and supervise the performance of the Executive Board of the Cooperative in the face of objectives and goals defined for the Society; III - approve regulations within its competence, which cannot contradict the provisions of systemic regulations; IV - name and dismiss the members of the Executive Board, as well as establish their duties and responsibilities and the individual remuneration of the Directors, in compliance with the provisions contained in the statute; V - register the vacancy of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board; VI - authorize the contracting of credit operations with financial institutions, intended for financing the activities of members, in compliance with the provisions of systemic regulations; VII - decide on payment the annual remuneration on the capital shares, stipulating the remuneration, in accordance with current legislation; VIII - forward to the general meeting a proposal for the donation of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; IX - decide on the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of the Cooperative's real estate, classified as non-current; X - examine and investigate reports of infractions committed within the Company, including those sent to them by the Executive Board and the Fiscal Council, and determine the application of applicable penalties; XI - decide on the elimination and exclusion of members; XII - decide on the call for a general meeting; XIII - authorize, in advance, capital participations in other companies or entities, including those of a non-cooperative nature, meeting complementary or accessory purposes, in the interest of the Cooperative's membership and community and respecting current legislation and the systemic deliberations and guidelines in this regard; XIV - authorize the alteration of the address of the headquarters, within the same municipality, as well as to deliberate on the opening, closure, transfer or change of address of the other or final dependencies of the cooperative, inside or outside the municipality, in the terms current legislation;Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 34XV - comply with and enforce this Statute, legislation and Sicredi's internal regulations; XVI - express an opinion on the report of the administration and reporting of the financial year; XVII - choose and dismiss external auditors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; XVIII - approve policies for attracting new members and/or increasing the share capital of the membership; XIX - authorize the carrying out of campaigns and the offering or distribution of bonuses, prizes or other advantages aimed at attracting members or increasing the share capital of the membership; XX - deliberate on speciﬁc matters of interest to the Cooperative, as well as omitted cases and all other duties provided for in these Bylaws and in the relevant legislation, until further deliberation by the general assembly, if applicable. Single paragraph. In the event that the Board of Directors designates other members for functions of an auxiliary nature, it will define for each of them, with recording in the minutes, the relevant responsibilities. Art. 30 The President of the Council is responsible, among others, for the following duties, observing the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I – monitor and supervise the Cooperative's activities, including compliance with applicable standards, coordinating the action of the Executive Board; II - lead the implementation of Sicredi's membership organization, development and management programs, in order to guarantee business continuity and the training of new cooperative leaders; III - monitor the execution of work plans relating specifically to the development of the Cooperative; IV - submit proposals for internal regulations to the Board of Directors, in compliance with systemic guidelines; V - submit the annual or multi-annual work plan to the Board of Directors for consideration, as well as budgetary proposals, monitoring their implementation; VI - present to the Board of Directors and, on its behalf, to the general assembly, an annual report on the operations and activities of the Cooperative, accompanied by the balance sheet, the statement of surpluses and losses and the opinion of the Supervisory Board and the independent audit, in addition to other documents and information that may be required; VII - select the Directors, within or outside the membership structure, in compliance with the special competence of the Board of Directors; VIII - institutionally represent the Cooperative, in strategic-corporate matters before the System, and also in general assemblies and meetings of the companies whose capital the Cooperative Cooperative participate; IX - participate in congresses, seminars and other events as an institutional representative of the Cooperative, and may be replaced by anyone indicated; X - pay attention to the good performance of the Board of Directors, calling and coordinating its meetings; XI - systematically evaluate the service provided to the social framework in the premises of the cooperative, aiming to ensure the satisfaction and quality of services provided to the members; XII - apply the penalties that are stipulated by the general meeting or the Board of Directors; XIII - appoint a secretary to draw up or coordinate the drawing up of minutes of general assemblies and meetings of the Board of Directors. Art. 31 The Vice-President of the Council will replace the President of the Council in his leaves, absences, suspensions or impediments, including at general assemblies and meetings of the companies in whose capital the Cooperative participates. Section II Executive Board Art. 32 The Cooperative will be managed by an Executive Board, which is responsible for carrying out acts and operations related to the purposes of interest of the society, composed of at least 2 (two) Directors, being an Executive Director and an Operations Director, and a maximum of 3 (three) Directors, with Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 36 being an Executive Director, an Operations Director and a Business Director. § 1 The Directors will be appointed by the Board of Directors within 90 (ninety) days after the end of the term or vacancy in the position of the Directors, and will perform the functions provided for in these Bylaws. § 2 In the event of the appointment of only 2 (two) Directors, the functions of the unoccupied position will be performed cumulatively by the Directors, as decided by the Board of Directors, observing legal and regulatory restrictions. § 3 The term of office will be 4 (four) years, and those appointed will remain in office until their successors take office. They may also be reappointed in the same way and term or, at any time, removed by the Board of Directors. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 The Cooperative will be represented, in or out of Court, actively and passively, subject to the provisions of section VIII of art. 30, obligatorily: I - by 2 (two) Directors jointly; II - by 1 (one) Director together with 1 (one) attorney with speciﬁc powers, duly constituted; III - by 2 (two) attorneys together, with speciﬁc powers. § 6 Exceptionally, the representation of the Cooperative will be valid upon the signature of only 1 (one) Director or 1 (one) attorney, in the following cases: I - before federal, state and municipal public bodies, autarchies and mixed economy companies; II - granting documents to represent the Company in court, including the appointment of agents and lawyers; III - in cases of license less than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days that implies the lack of a plurality of Directors and an unfilled vacancy. Art. 33 To be able to hold the position of Director, 37candidates must meet the following conditions: I - meet the requirements described in art. 27, items I to XII and XVII to XIX, as well as § 1; II - comply with the provisions of §§ 8 and 9 of art. 27; III - have a degree in higher education; IV - proven to have knowledge compatible with the complexity of the inherent activities, in addition to knowing, each one, in depth, the functioning of the financial system; V – meet the complementary systemic requirements when provided for in the regulations. Art. 34 The Executive Board, without prejudice to the responsibilities provided for in legislation and internal regulations, is responsible for: I - operationally managing the Cooperative, taking into account its purpose, the guidelines issued by the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and the guidelines and strategies Sicredi corporate entities; II - contract obligations, compromise, sign agreements in legal proceedings, agreements or collective conventions, assign and pledge or renounce rights, as well as monitor the economic-financial state of the company, observing the provisions of this Statute; III - appoint attorneys, establishing for them, in an instrument of skillful mandate, duties, powers and responsibilities and form of representation, which may be isolated or jointly, within the limits of this Statute. You power of attorney instruments must have the minimum powers necessary to carry out speciﬁc acts and for a deﬁned period, except those that include the powers of the ad judicia clause, which may be granted for an indeﬁnite period of validity; IV - sign all documents, including contracts and public deeds, and take any other measures with a view to the completion and execution of the acquisition, sale, donation or encumbrance, as the case may be, of movable or immovable assets of the Cooperative, subject to the provisions of this Statute; V - authorize and formalize the sale or encumbrance of real estate classified as current of the Cooperative, and take any other measures with a view to carrying out such business; VI - prepare strategic and financial planning, in accordance with the systemic guidelines and those defined by the Board of Directors, and be responsible for its execution; VII - implement control standards internal operations and services, routinely checking the economic and financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; VIII - examine the work plans and respective budgets, monitoring their execution on a monthly basis, reporting on the economic-financial state of the Cooperative and the development of operations and activities in general; IX - decide on the hiring and dismissal of employees; X - comply with and enforce compliance with the notes and technical guidelines for auditing and internal controls, aiming at security and respect for legislation and Sicredi's internal regulations; XI - decide on the granting of any mode of donation of movable property, contribution or assistance, regardless of benefit and value, in accordance with the guidelines agreed by the Board of Directors; XII - comply with and enforce internal regulations; XIII - be responsible for all other activities typical of ordinary administration of the Cooperative; XIV - decide on the receipt and disposal of assets, movable or immovable, for the settlement or amortization of operations carried out by the Cooperative with its members, respecting the authority approved by the Board of Directors. Art. 35 The members of the Executive Board are responsible for the following duties, among others, in compliance with § 2 of art. 32 of this Statute and the details provided for in Sicredi's internal regulations: I - To the Executive Director: a) promote and support the relationship between the executive areas and the Cooperative's Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, subsidizing and supporting the work;39b) providing resources and ensuring the implementation and monitoring of Sicredi's cooperativism and sustainability development programs in the Cooperative's area of ​​operation; c) respond to the Cooperative's expansion plans and activities, in accordance with market potential, always striving for sustainable and solid development; d) coordinate and monitor the execution of the Cooperative's budget based on the deliberations of the Board of Directors; e) responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the Cooperative, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning, in addition to monitoring and intervening in service units, in accordance with the Cooperative's economic and financial planning; f) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory bodies and inspectors; g) prepare and forward to the Board of Directors, through the President, for consideration, the annual or multi-annual work plan, as well as budget proposals, implementing their execution; h) represent the cooperative in deliberations on systemic rules and regulations. II - The Operations Director: a) be responsible for management analyzes of the financial statements, accounting and tax controls and the Cooperative's performance indicators; b) respond to internal control, compliance and risk activities, as well as take steps in the supervision process and ensure compliance with internal rules and legislation; c) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. III - The Business Director: a) prepare and respond for the implementation of tactical planning for the Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 40 product and service portfolios based on the guidelines of the systemic strategic planning and those defined by the Board of Directors; b) be responsible for managing the performance and monitoring the results of the service units, striving for the full achievement of the goals agreed in the Cooperative's annual planning; c) respond to and monitor the execution of the rural credit budget, as well as its liabilities; d) be responsible for implementing the Cooperative's expansion plans in accordance with the Board's deliberations Executive and Board of Directors; e) formally respond to the responsibilities indicated before regulatory and supervisory bodies. § 1 Any of the members of the Executive Board are prohibited from carrying out acts of liberality at the expense of the Cooperative, and the granting of endorsements, sureties and other guarantees is permitted, in the name of the Cooperative, as long as they are relevant to its corporate purpose and as provided for in this Statute. Social. § 2 The Executive Board is not a collegiate body, However, they may meet in person and/or remotely, by physical and/or electronic means, whenever called by the Executive Director, to decide on matters within their competence, especially those defined in art. 34 of these Bylaws, when the nature of the act requires a joint decision by the Directors or when they deem it necessary to formalize a meeting. § 3 The deliberations and other substantial occurrences at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. Art. 36. In case of vacancy in the position of any of the Directors, in accordance with art. 27, § 5, items III to VI of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors will appoint the respective substitute, whose mandate will coincide with the mandates of the other Directors. The vacancy, however, if applicable and at the discretion of the Board of Directors, may no longer be filled, given that, in this case, the respective functions will be performed by other Directors. Single paragraph. In the event of vacancy in all positions on the Executive Board, the Board of Directors will appoint an interim executive manager to carry out the duties for a maximum period of 90 (ninety) days.41Art. 37 The Board of Directors and Directors, with their personal assets, are jointly and severally liable for the obligations assumed by the Cooperative during its management, until they are fully fulfilled. § 1 The Administrators who give rise to the insufficiency of liquidity in the Check and Other Paper Clearing Service, or, due to reckless management or serious omission of duties, cause losses to the Company, they will be liable directly with their own assets for compensation for the damages; § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including in the judicial sphere, to promote the accountability of the Board of Directors and Directors whose actions or omissions, in accordance with the previous paragraph, have the consequence of any of the results referred to therein.Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 42CHAPTER VIII THE FISCAL COUNCIL Art. 38 The administration of the Cooperative will be supervised assiduously and thoroughly by a Fiscal Council, made up of 3 (three) effective members and 1 (one) alternate, all individual members, elected by the general assembly, observing the conditions and requirements for candidacy and exercise of functions, the provisions of art. 27, items I to XIX, of this Statute. § 1 The election of members of the Fiscal Council requires complete, independent and unrelated slate(s) from the election of the Board of Directors, subject to the other conditions referred to in §2 of art. 27 of this Statute. § 2º The member of the Fiscal Council must not be a habitual provider of services or supplier of products to the Cooperative, whether as a natural person or through a legal entity of which is a member, considering as usual the provision of services or the supply of products that, in the last 12 (twelve) months, has a frequency of more than 3 (three) occurrences or, regardless of the frequency, lasts more than 2 (two) months. § 3 The term of office will be 03 (three) years, with renewal of at least 1 (one) effective member at each election. §4º The inauguration of the elected person(s) will be effective within 30 (thirty) days of authorization of the name(s) by the regulatory body. § 5 Elected councilors will remain in office until their successors take office. Art. 39 The Fiscal Council meets at least every 2 (two) months on an ordinary basis and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary, deciding by majority. Its deliberations and other substantial events at the meetings will be recorded in minutes, approved and signed by the members present. § 1 At its first meeting, it will choose, from among its effective members, a coordinator, responsible for convening the meetings and direct the work, and a secretary. § 2 Meetings may also be called by any of its 43 members and at the request of the assembly or the Board of Directors. § 3 If the coordinator and/or secretary are absent, replacements will be chosen at that time. § 4 The Fiscal Council meetings may be in-person, remotely, or in-person and remotely simultaneously, including electronically. Art. 40 In the case of temporary absence, or in case of vacancy, the Effective councilors will be replaced by alternates, following the order established in the election minutes. § 1 In the event of 2 (two) or more vacancies on the Board, the President of the Board of Directors will call the general meeting to fill them appropriately, within 30 (thirty) days. § 2 The vacancy hypotheses provided for in art. 27, §7, of this Statute, and the Board itself is responsible for assessing the justifications for the absences of its members. § 3º In In the event that the counselor is nominated as a candidate for a party political position, he or she must submit a request to resign from the elective position in the Cooperative within 48 (forty-eight) hours after the date of the party convention in which the nomination is confirmed, under penalty of vacancy in the position. Art. 41 Among other duties arising from legislation, this Statute and systemic regulations, the Fiscal Council is responsible for: I - exercising regular supervision over assets, operations with associates, the services and acts of administrators; II - assiduously control financial movements, availability of resources, expenses, investments and the regularity of their implementation, as well as the values ​​and documents in custody; III - evaluate the loan policy and monitor its granting; IV - analyze the financial statements prepared periodically by the Cooperative and give an opinion on the regularity of the administration accounts and the financial statements for the fiscal year, preparing the respective opinion, which will contain, if applicable, the dissenting votes, as well as Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 44compliance with the rules on the social activities and interests of the Cooperative, presenting an opinion to the general assembly, and may consult internal and external auditors to provide information necessary for the performance of their functions; V - become aware of the internal audit reports produced by the company's auditors Central and independent audit, contributing to the work of these professionals and firmly demanding, from the administration, the corrections whose need is indicated in the documents; VI - investigate compliance, by the Cooperative's administration, with the provisions of this Statute and other official regulations and the System itself, as well as the deliberations of the general assembly, the Board of Directors and other formally established systemic deliberative bodies, in relation to strategic-corporate matters of interest to all individual cooperatives and their respective central members of Sicredi; VII - report to the board of directors the conclusions of its work, alerting about the irregularities found and, in the absence of action on its part, report the fact, in a timely manner, to the general assembly and the Central; VIII - examine the risk reports generated by centralizing entities regarding the risk scenario risk of the institution, verifying compliance by the Cooperative's administration with the postulates of each report; IX - give an opinion on the proposals of the management bodies, to be submitted to the general assembly, relating to the incorporation, merger or dismemberment of the cooperative; X - call a general meeting, by deliberation of the majority of its members, whenever serious or urgent reasons occur. § 1 The effective members of the Fiscal Council are jointly and severally responsible, including in relation to losses resulting from irregular acts and facts of the Cooperative's administration, the practice of which results from its proven omission, carelessness, lack of acuity, prompt warning to the Board of Directors and, in the event of its inertia or reluctance, timely reporting to the general meeting. § 2º The Cooperative, through its corporate bodies, jointly or separately, authorized herein, will promptly take the appropriate measures, including within the scope judicial, to promote the liability of directors and officers for the losses caused in accordance with the previous paragraph. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 46CHAPTER IX FIXATION OF THE FISCAL YEAR, BALANCE SHEET, RESULTS AND SOCIAL FUNDS Art. 42 The fiscal year lasts for 1 (one ) year, ending on December 31st. Art. 43 Two balance sheets will be drawn up during the year, one on the last day of June and the other on the last day of December. Art. 44 The surplus calculated at the end of each financial year (consolidated result) will be allocated as follows: I - 45% (forty-five percent), at least, to the reserve fund, intended to repair losses and support the development of the Cooperative; II - 5% (five percent), at least, to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (Fates), intended to provide assistance to members, their families, Cooperative employees and the community located in its area of action; III - recomposition of resources of guarantee funds, in accordance with current legislation; IV - the remaining balance will be made available to the general assembly, for purposes it deems appropriate, in compliance with the provisions of § 1 of this article. § 1º Whenever the Cooperative does not reach the asset structure required/stipulated, by the monetary authority and by Sicredi's internal rules, to support the operations necessary to fulfill its objectives, the available surpluses, in compliance with the planned apportionment system in this Statute, they must be transformed, up to the necessary limit, into new shares of the members' capital or allocated additionally to the Reserve Fund itself. § 2 Donations without a speciﬁc destination may be allocated to the Reserve Fund before determining the obligatory destinations; and, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, the loss amounts recovered from previous years and other amounts recovered, including as a result of applicable regulations. Art. 45 The allocation of surpluses and the apportionment of losses will be 47proportionate to the operations carried out by the members, according to the calculation formula established by the general assembly. Single paragraph. It is possible, upon decision of the general assembly, to compensate, through surpluses from the following years, the remaining balance of losses recorded in the previous year. Art. 46 The Reserve Fund and the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund are indivisible between the members.Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 48CHAPTER at the very least, they are not willing to ensure its continuity; II - by changing its legal form; III - by reducing the number of members to less than 20 (twenty), or their minimum share capital if, until the subsequent general meeting, achievable within a period of no less than 6 (six) months, are not reestablished; IV - cancellation of authorization to operate; V - for the interruption of their normal activities for more than 120 (one hundred and twenty) days. Art. 48 The liquidation of the Society will comply with its own legal and regulatory standards.49CHAPTER current.Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 50CHAPTER XII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Art. 50 The deadlines provided for in this Statute will be counted in calendar days, excluding the starting day and including the ending day. Art. 51 Correspondence, notifications and communications, physical or electronic, sent by the Cooperative to the member based on their registration data will be presumed to have been received within 5 (five) days, counted from their sending. Art. 52 The cooperative has legitimacy extraordinary autonomous competitor to act as a procedural substitute in defense of the collective rights of its members when the cause of action concerns acts of direct interest to the members that are related to the cooperative's market operations, upon authorization expressed individually by the member or through general meeting that decides on the proposal of the judicial measure. Art. 53 Omitted cases will be resolved in accordance with the legislation and cooperative principles, consulted, when applicable, the social bodies. Art. 54 The current members of the Fiscal Council will have their mandates preserved until the Ordinary General Assembly of 2024, when the new composition provided for in art will be applied. 38 of these Bylaws. Sorriso - MT, April 15, 2023.