21Annual Report Sicredi Celeiro MT/RRExpedient Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR EXECUTIVE BOARD President: Laercio Pedro LenzVice-president: Domingos Junior de SousaExecutive Director: Marcio Luiz de AbreuBusiness Director: Lucimar João de LucaOperations Director: Márcio Luis W. Schoninger ELABORATION Area of RelationshipCommunication and Marketing ConsultancyEDITIONLeandro José do NascimentoNatália ColichioJosemara BergmannPHOTOS Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR2 Collection 2021 Annual Report Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR SummaryMESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT O Sicredi Our CooperativeRegional OperationHighlights in 2021GovernanceAwards and Recognition RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISMCorporate Education Actions of the Day CDeveloping EmployeesPeople Who Cooperate CareFinancial Education RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONSCampaigns InnovationPartnershipsGreen Economy LOCAL DEVELOPMENTSocial Fund Programa A União Faz a VidaEsporte Sicredi in the Community ACCOUNTABILITY Results Report of the AdministrationReport AuditOpinion of the Fiscal Council HOW TO CONNECT WITH USDigital Channels Sicredi Station Program Our Agencies 5 6 8 9 10 13 15 18 20 21 2222 23 25 27 29 3030 31 33 39 40 41 42 44 45 6669 70 72 73 744 An Report ual 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Lessons, learnings and opportunities In the very definition of the term, cooperativism means a movement, be it economic or social, based on the action and participation of members with a view to achieving the common good. The word itself alone, it represents not only union, but can be associated with change, as, above all, it is an important agent of social, economic and even cultural transformation in the localities where it is present. And in the midst of a year full of challenges, with the need to remain in constant reframing of processes, mechanisms and even our lives, the act of cooperating made even more sense. Cooperating, yes, transformed lives and 2021 showed us that. And with credit cooperatives it was not different. Cooperation made a difference, with support for entities and projects; Cooperating also meant being at the member's side, being their support and support in crucial moments. Cooperating fostered the construction of a better and fairer society. Two thousand and twenty-one left us lessons, learning and opportunities. And in order to retrace the main moments that took place over the last cycle, this report shares with its readership the main actions of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR throughout 2021, enabling a broad and complete view of the activities developed, fundamentally, thanks to the support of each of the more than 80 thousand associates who, as owners of this business, believe in and encourage it. The document lists a set of information on the social and economic aspects of the cooperative. Happy reading!5 Message from the president Message from the President Laercio Pedro Lenz President of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RRA each year-end, it is common for us to stop to reflect on what we experienced, what we learned, what we achieved, as well as what we still have ahead of us. Aware of the permanence of a pandemic, we have made attitudes such as reframing processes, improving mechanisms and caring for life part of our DNA. We ended 2021 aware of many challenges experienced, but also of great progress for Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR. Presence in the cities of Sorriso, Sinop, Santa Carmem, Cláudia, Vera, Feliz Natal, União do Sul and Nova Ubiratã and the districts of Primavera, Água Limpa and Boa Esperança, in Mato Grosso, in addition to the State of Roraima, where we began the expansion process, the cooperative reaffirmed its commitment to bringing not only financial solutions to the community, but to being a link and agent of transformation , also supporting social initiatives. The numbers demonstrate the evolution experienced over the last year. We concluded last year's exercise with more than 82 thousand members, that is, people who, above all, are owners of this business and who help to strengthen it through their participation in decision-making. After all, the cooperative is the size that the member wants and the more he invests and invests in the institution, the more it grows and prospers. Likewise, all the people who connect with it. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR's financial result also advanced, registering an increase of 33.6% over 2020, going from R$78.5 to R$104.9 million. In social terms, thanks to the support of members, we invested R$600 thousand to support projects through our Social Fund. These are just some of the highlights from last year that we mention here and which will be detailed in the following pages. For another year, we have prepared this report with great care to keep you up to date with the information, numbers, achievements and actions of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR throughout 2021. The path passes through the areas of Relationship and Cooperativism, advancing on Responsible Solutions , arrives at Local Development and, finally, the Provision of Accounts and Results. To conclude, I would like to express my gratitude to our Fiscal and Administration Councils, our employees and thousands of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR associates. Let us continue together transforming lives and taking development to different corners of Mato Grosso and Roraima. We are a cooperative ﬁnancial institution committed to strengthening the ﬁnancial strength and quality of life of our members and the development of the regions where we operate. Today, we are present in 26 states and the Federal District, with more than 2,200 branches, and we offer more than 300 financial products and services. Our cooperatives are organized in a national system, forming a support network that reduces risks and strengthens our local operations. We have specialized companies and financial instruments that offer security, credibility and reliability to members across the country. Each of our cooperatives has administrative and financial autonomy to operate locally, generating value for our communities. Our management model values ​​the role of members as owners of the business, encouraging participation in decisions and sharing the final results. SICREDINos sa cooperative *Source: Analyzer, 2021 Net revenue of R$ 104.8 million 82,340 members 15 branches and 6 accredited agents 448 employees, counselors and directors in 9 municipalities and 3 districts More than 300 ﬁnancial solutions R$3.3 billion in assets R$574.1 million in net equity R$2 billion in total deposits R$2.1 billion in credit portfolio balanceOur cooperative in numbers 2021Our story began in the 90s, when 28 rural producers got together and created, together, the Sorriso Rural Credit Cooperative, Credisol. In September of the same year, Credisol opened the doors of its first agency, and, in 1997, adopted the Sicredi brand. However, only in 2001, it celebrated the inauguration of its first headquarters, also in the city of Sorriso. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR celebrated its 32nd anniversary and is currently present in nine municipalities and three districts. In addition to the headquarters city, Sorriso, our cooperative financial institution also operates in Sinop, Santa Carmem, Vera, Feliz Natal, Cláudia, União do Sul and Nova Ubiratã, in the Districts of Boa Esperança, Primavera and Água Limpa, in the State of Mato Grosso. With the approval of the expansion by the Central Bank in February 2021, we arrived in the State of Roraima with the opening of two new branches in the Capital Boa Vista, which makes us celebrate more than three decades of hard work and dedication alongside the community and our associates, providing opportunities for prosperity, great challenges and inspiration to continue growing. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR is one of the cooperatives that are part of Central Sicredi Centro Norte, based in Cuiabá, and today offers over 300 products and services, which serve a variety of needs. public, distributed in three segments: Urban, Business and Agro. Our management is democratic and transparent, and follows the form of a cooperative organization whose member participation is essential for joint construction, where each person's vote has the same value. Year after year we consolidate this relationship, as well as investing in the permanent training of our teams, providing opportunities for professional growth and seeking improvements in our service. We also sign our commitment to communities through our Social Programs. We believe in education as a way of involving and transforming the locality in which we are present, promoting cooperation and citizenship. We do this through projects that develop fairer, more supportive and entrepreneurial citizens, who respect diversity and dialogue to make decisions. In 2021 we celebrated the milestone of 82,340 associates, where we once again reaffirmed our Sicredi way of being, which prioritizes close, simple and active relationship, and believes that differentiated service focused on the member’s needs makes all the difference. At Sicredi, whether personally, through our physical and in-person service, or through our electronic and digital channels, we work with offers of products, services and financial solutions to meet the demands of our members.8 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/ RR *Data from 2021Cities Sorriso SinopMerry ChristmasVeraUnião do SulCláudiaSanta CarmemNova Ubiratã Boa VistaDistricts Boa Esperança PrimaveraÁgua LimpaStates Mato GrossoRoraimaREGIONAL OPERATION 82,340 associates 448 employees, advisors and directors 15 agencies More than 300 ﬁnancial solutionsRR PA TOAP AC Legend Area of ​​activity Expansion areaSicredi Celeiro MT/RR9 Regional OperationHighlights in 2021 GROWTH No Last year, we were even more connected with our associates. We offer not only financial solutions, but also we contribute to the generation of value, impacting communities, strengthening relationships with associates and being an ever-increasing presence. At the end of 2021, we grew 21.8% in the number of members, reaching 82,340 people. SUSTAINABILITY Through our social programs, we bring training, learning and transformation to the community. The União Faz a Vida Program, a social responsibility initiative by Sicredi, has been carrying out actions in the municipalities of Sorriso since 2014 and Merry Christmas, since 2009.10 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR FINANCIAL EDUCATION The Cooperation program at Ponta do Lápis also brought knowledge about financial education to different audiences throughout 2021. Training continued, many in online format, for Individuals (PF ), companies, children, teenagers and young people. There were 485 actions developed in the area of ​​activity in Mato Grosso, with 10,274 people involved. TRAINING OF MEMBERS Through the Crescer Program, 204 training actions were taken to Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR associates. 4,919 people participated in the training. The Crescer Program is aimed at Sicredi members, with the objective of informing and educating about the advantages of credit cooperatives and how to actively participate in their cooperative. It is also dedicated to any member of the community who wants to learn more about how together, we can make a difference in people's lives and the local economy. BELONGING TO PROGRAM A feeling of belonging is extremely important for any environment, especially in a cooperative environment. And our associates make cooperation happen through democratic participation. The assembly process is the moment through which associates exercise their role as business owners, contributing to decisions. In 2021, in our first Digital Assembly, the presence of 5,795 members was recorded. SOCIAL FUND In 2021, we reaffirmed our commitment to social matters also through through the Social Fund, contributing to projects of charitable entities that operate in the area covered by Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR in Mato Grosso. In total, R$600,000 were allocated, covering 50 projects and benefiting the lives of 36,670 people, directly and indirectly.11 Highlights in 2021NATIONAL AWARD In 2021 we celebrated winning the SomosCoop Excellence in Management Cycle 2021 national award. Sicredi Celeiro MT/ RR won silver in the “Towards Excellence” category. The award is aimed at cooperatives that are advancing through the adoption and development of good practices in cooperative identity, governance and management. EVOLUTION 2021 was a positive year for Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR in different aspects, reaffirming the sustainability of this business in which more than 82 thousand people are involved. Consolidated data from 2021 indicates a 22.4% growth in the volume of credit operations in relation to 2020. They went from R$1,719 billion to R$2,104.2 billion between periods. Net equity also evolved between 2020 and 2021, going from R$491 million to R$574.1 million, respectively. The number takes into account the capital quota plus accumulated reserves and the result of that year 2021. With the active participation of members, through contracting financial solutions, products and various services, 2021 ended with an also higher financial result: R$ 104 .9 million, an increase of 33.6% over 2020, when it was R$78.5 millions. 12 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR GOVERNANCE13 Governance14 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Marcio Luiz de Abreu Executive Director Operations Director MarcioSchoninger Lucimar João de Luca Business Director Executive Board Two thousand and twenty-one was a year of awards and recognition. knowledge for Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, recognizing the success and excellence in the management of the cooperative, as well as projects developed together with members and through which the transformation of realities is promoted. In December, the cooperative received the SomosCoop Excellence in Management Cycle 2021 Award. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR won silver in the “Towards Excellence” category. In 2021, 310 Brazilian cooperatives entered the award that recognizes institutions that are developing good cooperative identity practices. Of these, 112 had their processes analyzed through virtual visits. 70 specialist lists from the National Quality Excellence Foundation of Management (FNQ) acted as evaluators. Every two years, Brazilian cooperatives are recognized for prioritizing the quality and competitiveness of the cooperative business model. The award is aimed at cooperatives that are advancing through the adoption and development of good practices in cooperative identity, governance and management, three issues that are identiﬁed in the diagnostic tools of the National Cooperative Learning Service (Sescoop). For the president of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, Laercio Pedro Lenz, the recognition is in line with Awards and recognition for work based on ethics and commitment to permanent development. “This is teamwork that mobilizes all of our employees, whether from agencies or Headquarters, who carry out, with great dedication, exemplary work based on transparency, the evolution of our management, exactly along the Towards Excellence axis. , that we had the grateful joy of being recognized”, emphasized Lenz. In 2019, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR was also among the cooperatives awarded silver in the Towards Excellence category. “After a season full of challenges and insecurity, despite great growth, being able to maintain our position, without a doubt, is a great victory. This silver remains ours and we continue towards gold together”, celebrated Laercio Pedro Lenz. The executive director of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, Marcio Luiz de Abreu, highlighted that “the Recognition in the award motivates us to continue evolving our management practices so that society perceives us as the best alternative and contributing to cooperativism becoming an increasingly protagonist in the development of the community. We managed to maintain recognition as silver in the Towards Excellence category and this is a great achievement, given all the challenges posed by the pandemic, as our operations needed to be reorganized to remain relevant for our associates and community.” On the left, Business Director, Lucimar João de Luca, with the national award trophy at the World Council Young Credit Union People (Wycup), a program that recognizes young leaders for signiﬁcant contributions to their communities and credit unions and who have the potential to make an impact global. The event was part of another edition of the Woccu ​​World Conference (World Council of Credit Cooperatives, in the English translation of the acronym), held between the 14th and 21st of July, which took place virtually due to the pandemic. The cooperative financial institution had five projects included among the 12 winners of the award, which had a total of 79 projects registered from 13 different countries. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR at Wycup 2021Representing Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, collaborator Leonardo Costa discussed the Agro Sustentável project. The work, which reached the world final, showed how our producers preserve, that credit cooperatives can promote a credit portfolio free from illegal deforestation and encourage the recovery of degraded areas. Collaborator Leonardo and Belusso family during video recording for Wycup Collaborator Leonardo and associate Luana Belusso, during video recording for Wycup “With the monitoring of areas, it was possible to identify that producers had degraded areas on their properties, and to develop an action plan to raise awareness among our members regarding the importance of recovering these areas”, explained Leonardo. The project reached a result of more than 3 thousand hectares in recovery, meeting one of the sustainable development objectives that deals with the promotion of life on land.16 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Featured in award from ACES de Sorriso With presence In the municipalities of Sinop, Sorriso, Santa Carmem, Cláudia, Vera, Feliz Natal, União do Sul and Nova Ubiratã, in addition to the districts of Primavera, Boa Esperança and Água Limpa, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR fulfills its role as an agent of transformation in the community and, in this way, gaining visibility for its work with those who are the pillars of this cooperative business: the members (PF, PJ or Agro). In the 2020 edition of the Sorriso Commercial and Business Association (ACES) award, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR was recognized as a featured company, winning the credit cooperative and financial institution categories, being the most voted among all those evaluated in the survey. The award was presented in October 2021, during an event promoted by ACES in the city of Sorriso. In the credit cooperative category alone, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR received 72.8% of valid votes; already in a financial institution, another 54.8%. Business highlight in Vera, Feliz Natal and Santa Carmem In Vera, the The highlights were the categories bank agency, ﬁnancial and cooperative agency and also bank employee. In Feliz Natal, credit cooperative and bank branch, as well as bank employee, and, in Santa Carmem, business highlight in the credit cooperative and bank employee category. Source: Angulo Pesquisa. Merry Christmas Bank employees: Ana Claudia Gallon – PF business manager, Ricardo de Lima Bueno – PF business manager. Vera Bank employees: Alessandro Miotto – Agência Vera manager, Ana Cristina Dominelli Silles – PF business manager, Josemilk Silva dos Santos – PF business manager, Claucia-ne Cortonezi Gonçalves – PJ business manager. Santa Carmem Banking Employee: Patrícia Lodi Tonkelski – PJ business manager. More recognition In Cláudia, Sicredi was certified as a friend of the Lions Club, a recognition granted by the entity. 17 Awards and recognitionRelationships and cooperativismChapterCooperative carries out more than 200 corporate education actions Main cooperative education initiative, the Crescer Program provides members with personal development for carrying out activities in the cooperative and in their professional activity. Through the actions, the target audience deepens their knowledge about cooperativism and cooperative society, better understanding their role as owners of a collective enterprise, through training with exclusive methodology. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR carried out 204 actions under the Crescer Program, which, together, involved 4,919 people. Throughout the year, activities were conducted by teams from the 15 agencies in Mato Grosso in a hybrid manner, that is, both in person and online, always complying with the necessary protocols to prevent the new coronavirus. União do Sul team conducts online training on the Crescer Program Facilitators of the Crescer Program receive live training on the Crescer Program carried out by Agência Santa Carmem Crescer Program meeting held with women Crescer Program training conducted by the Sorriso Leste20 Agency teamAnnual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 21 Relationships and cooperativism Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR takes C-Day actions to more than 8 thousand people More than 8.5 thousand people were impacted by the actions of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR during the Cooperation Day programming activities, in 2021. Throughout the month of July, activities such as education actions were promoted financial assistance, donation of clothes and hygiene kits, food collection, in addition to the transfer of coolers to the Sinop blood bank. C Day is a movement organized nationally by the Brazilian Cooperative Organization (OCB), which mobilizes the segment with the aim of carrying out social responsibility actions, putting into practice the values ​​and principles of cooperativism. In 2021, Fundação Sicredi carried out a national fundraising campaign to purchase food, as well as donations of non-perishable food were collected at the institution's branches. In addition to being part of this agenda, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also developed other actions locally. In Brazil, Sicredi System cooperatives collected 750 tons of food, reaching more than 106 thousand people. In Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR's area of ​​operation, which comprises eight municipalities and three districts, 6,902 kilos were collected, benefiting 1,755 people. 806 people They received knowledge through our Financial Education program and the distribution of hygiene kits benefited 467 people. The donation of clothes benefited 675 people, and the remainder comprises the public served by the Sinop blood collection unit. "Despite the pandemic, we are unable to do so. Sorriso Teams deliver food to the entity. Ag. Sinop Av. Jacarandás in organizing clothes and hygiene kits for donation Food donated to the elderly in SinopCarrying out face-to-face actions, as in recent years, we have adapted to this scenario and have not stopped benefiting others through actions that, even simple ones, can make a difference in the lives of those in need", highlighted the Cooperative Development Advisor, Aline Dessbesell. 22Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Developing employees Employee development is part of the essence of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR. In 2021, it couldn't be any different. Education and training were promoted by the cooperative, aiming to prepare employees to carry out their day-to-day duties, as well as expanding their experience in cooperativism. All initiatives followed health guidelines and protocols regarding prevention of the new coronavirus, such as, for example, limiting participants, spacing, among others. The Sicredi Aprendi Platform also supported all employees in building knowledge, encouraging employee protagonism in their learning. The cooperative ended 2021 with 432 employees. Training for employees Integration of new employees People who Cooperate Care With 15 agencies operating in the municipalities of Sorriso, Sinop, Feliz Natal, Vera, União do Sul, Cláudia, Santa Carmem and Nova Ubiratã and in the districts of Boa Esperança, Primavera and Água Limpa, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR maintained, throughout 2021, actions also aimed at employees and agencies with a view to providing guidance and prevention of Covid-19. Spaces used by employees, as well as associates, received visual communication pieces, reinforcing guidelines regarding the disease and prevention mechanisms. Cooperative made alcohol gel available in different locations Members receive guidance on prevention Guidance on wearing a mask23 Relationships and cooperativism Cooperation in Ponta do Lápis Talking about financial education does not just mean referring to the way to save money. It goes further and involves a deeper reflection in order to make us ask ourselves questions about the way in which we relate to money. Encourage reflection and critical thinking on this subject. Sicredi believes that, through financial education, it is possible to achieve greater independence and freedom in our lives. Therefore, together with all cooperatives, Centrals and the Sicredi Foundation, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR carried out, in 2021, several initiatives focused on this theme and through the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis program. With the program's activities, teams from 15 agencies in eight municipalities and three districts shared practices that can bring a more sustainable financial life to many people. In total, 485 actions were developed, covering more than 10 thousand people (10,274). In a year of teaching activities in schools carried out in a hybrid way, the work of the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis program was also adapted to reality, being carried out in a similar way. Financial Education for company employees Sorriso Students active in the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis Financial Education Actions in the community Digital meeting held in 2021THE PROGRAM The Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis program was created in 2020, and is aimed at all people who want learn more about the topic. As a cooperative financial institution, Sicredi wants to help transform lives ﬁnancial support of people in the communities where it operates, providing information, knowledge and good practices to improve our relationship with money. The actions are aimed at individuals, micro-entrepreneurs, teenagers, children and adults. The materials used consider the differences between audiences and, therefore, languages, content and formats adapted to each proﬁle are used. 8th ENEF Week Having ﬁnancial education as one of the bases for generating a positive impact on society, Sicredi was present at the 8th edition of the National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week), an initiative of the Brazilian Financial Education Forum (FBEF), held between the 8th and 14th of November. During this period, the institution intensified its actions focused on the topic across the country, seeking to expand the impact on people and communities. To start ENEF Week, Sicredi promoted themed lives, as well as an agenda aimed at children and carried out together with Mauricio de Sousa Produções and Mônica’s gang, on the institution’s YouTube channel. In addition to the presentations, throughout ENEF Week, the cooperatives that make up Sicredi carried out local and regional initiatives in support of the theme. At Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, several actions were carried out, including the production of a special edition of the Estação Sicredi program, broadcast in November; activities of the Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis program for students and educators, in companies. The initiatives they were carried out in hybrid, in-person and online formats. Responsible solutionsChapterSicredi made a new service option available to its members, through WhatsApp Enterprise. Now, it is possible to deposit checks via WhatsApp with Theo, the virtual assistant. The solution provides practicality to the member who, at their fingertips, can carry out the procedure from wherever they are. Deposit checks via WhatsApp with Theo 1. 51 3358.4770. 2. option 2 Add our number on WhatsApp: Select to speak to Theo. 3. Type “Check deposit” and then follow the step-by-step instructions. Check availability at your cooperative. Make the most of this facility. 27 Responsible solutionsLook for your manager to find out more. Campaign valid for Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR members*Credit subject to analysis and approval. There have been many female achievements in recent decades, but there is still a lot to be done! That's why we, at Sicredi, prepared a special credit line, with a term of up to 7 years, for Women Entrepreneurs. Its potential is enormous. Do you believe it? Us too! Campaigns encourage the realization of dreams To support its members, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR developed, in 2021, credit campaigns aimed at supporting the realization of dreams. With fair conditions, the cooperative ﬁnancial institution provided credit in different modalities. The “Realizing Dreams” campaign supported members on fronts such as credit with property guarantee, construction and renovation, solar energy, development credit, machinery and equipment. In total, 761 dreams were taken off paper. More than R$60 million in credit was released. In the “Mais Tranquilidade” campaign, for example, the credit was aimed at members to use capital for their company, advance payments and renew stocks, for those who have a vehicle and wanted to finance it. Two thousand and twenty-one was a year to further reinforce support for female entrepreneurship and encourage businesses led by women. The numbers show the female strength at the helm of companies and help to understand the importance and even the opportunities. According to Sebrae, Mato Grosso has more than 161 thousand female entrepreneurs. In the State, they command 31% of companies. Furthermore, 58% of female entrepreneurs are under 44 years of age. The numbers reflect a scenario of advancement, with women inserted in the business world and occupying management positions. leadership. There were many female achievements in the Campaign valid for Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR members. We prepared special conditions in credit for construction, renovation, furniture, solar energy and safety equipment so that, by your side, your dreams can come true. From 10/15/2021 to 11/30/2021What if you could make your dreams come true? Contact your manager to find out more! *Credit subject to analysis and approval. Female entrepreneurship in credit unionsThe action was included also the promotion line, for agricultural members. Products such as insurance, ticket tags for your convenience when traveling and pensions, which generate peace of mind for the future, also entered the campaign. With “Mais Tranquilidade”, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR made 839 of its members’ dreams come true and released more than R$34.4 million in credit. The actions were valid for the eight municipalities and three districts in the cooperative’s area of ​​operation in Mato Grosso, benefiting members from Sorriso, Sinop, Vera, Feliz Natal, Santa Carmem, Nova Ubiratã, Cláudia and União do Sul, where the Cooperative has 15 branches, including the districts of Boa Esperança, Primavera and Água Limpa. recent decades, but there is still much to be done. This is why Sicredi also supports this cause and, in 2021, obtained resources destined for women entrepreneurs. Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR participated in this mobilization, also counting on this new line of credit. The line has around R$438 million reais and is a new type of corporate loan for companies that have women in their membership with a minimum share percentage of 51%. This line includes Micro, Small and Medium-sized companies with annual revenue of up to R$6 million.28Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR invests in modernization Cooperative ﬁnancial institution operating in eight municipalities and three districts of Mato Grosso, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR has 15 branches to serve its members. As part of its innovation process, last year the cooperative began purchasing and installing new equipment to modernize operations such as deposits carried out at self-service terminals. With the equipment, it is possible to deposit money without using an envelope and with the advantage of the amount deposited in the account immediately, every day of the week. Implementation of the machines began gradually and will be taken to all branches in Mato Grosso, where employees were instructed to present these terminals as a new option for members who need to carry out operations of this nature. Parallel to the installation of cash boxes for immediate deposit, communications were also installed informing members of the presence of the machines and their differences. Just identify the message “Make your deposit here” at the branch without envelope” and use the equipment.30 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Sicredi, Commercial Associations and CDL's together Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR entered into a partnership with entities such as Chambers of Retail Managers (CDL) and Business Commercial Associations that operate in the eight municipalities and three districts where the cooperative is present and began to offer exclusive and differentiated rates to companies affiliated with the entities At a time when concerns about sustainability is increasing, Sicredi continues to offer solutions that are in tune with the green economy. These are products and services that seek to contribute to the community and the environment, through actions such as support for solar energy, credit for family farming, credit for small businesses, the ABC Program (Low Carbon Agriculture), Costing Lines for Direct Planting, MODERAGRO Program, INOVAGRO Program, Pronaf Mais Alimentos and Sustainable Consortium. In 2021, for example, an action by Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR to encourage the installation of renewable energy gave members the opportunity to finance projects using this energy source by up to 100%. The initiative reached the cooperative members with the aim of encouraging the use of this system, especially due to the benefits it provides in economic and sustainable terms. Just to have an idea of ​​how much the use of solar energy is on the rise, since 2012 this is one of the sources fastest growing in the country. And the Expansion possibilities are still enormous. In Brazil, for example, photovoltaic solar energy represents 1.6% of the entire electrical matrix, according to the National Electric Energy Agency and the Brazilian Solar Energy Association. More Green Economy Financial solutions that are aligned with the green economy result in improved human well-being and social equality, while signiﬁcantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. To this end, the institution cooperative financial institution makes available to its members a series of products with socio-environmental benefits and which include credits for different purposes, funding lines, programs and consortium. for credit operations intended for working capital. Through the partnership, members of associated and affiliated companies now have credit of up to R$100,000 in up to 36 installments. Awareness and respect for the green economyLocal developmentChapterPastoral of the Children of Cláudia receives support from the Social FundSocial Fund allocates R$600,000 to projects Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR allocated, in 2021, a total of R$600,000 to the Social Fund. The resource was directed to supporting projects by non-profit entities, operating in the eight municipalities and three districts within the Cooperative's area of ​​operation. To be considered, the institutions submitted projects based on the conditions of the Social Fund 2021 notice, launched by the cooperative financial institution. The Social Fund meets Sicredi’s purpose, which is to build a more prosperous society together. That is, the Social Fund aims to strengthen actions developed by entities in municipalities that are in Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR's area of ​​operation, that are associated with the supporting Cooperative and that act for the benefit of the community in which they are located. In 2021, 87 initiatives were registered and after analysis by the responsible committees, 50 projects were approved. The proposals converge with the causes of Sicredi's Corporate Citizenship, which are Cooperation, Education and Local Development. As highlighted by the president of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, Laercio Pedro Lenz, the Social Fund meets Sicredi's purpose, which is to build a more prosperous society together. Its objective is to strengthen actions developed by entities in the regions where the cooperation is carried out. Feliz Nataltiva is present and may they act for the benefit of the community. “It is very gratifying for the Cooperative to help these charitable entities that, in 2021, together received R$600 thousand. This initiative is also a form of recognition to society for Sicredi's growth, both in our region and nationally. The members of our cooperative can feel like donors too. Especially because the resources allocated to entities are a reﬂection of the good relationship between associates and Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR”, says the president. 33 Local development50 Approved projects36,670 People benefitedDestined600 R$ thousand Check the list of entities by location in the Cooperative's area of ​​activity:35 Local development • Association of Ladies of Rotarians (Casa da Amizade) • Association of Volunteers of the Cancer Prevention Institute of the North of Mato Grosso(AVIP) • Community Association for Guidance and Learning for Adolescents • Women's Network to Combat Cancer (Refecs) Association of Parents and Friends of the Exceptional • Multifunctional Development and Social Assistance Organization (Omdas) • Casa Di Maria • Association of the Visually Impaired and Friends of Sinop (Adevas) • Rotary Club Tarumã • Renovated Presbyterian Church • Rotary Club Teles Pires • Rotary Club • Teles Pires Sinop Rotary Club • Children's Ministry • Nossa Senhora Aparecida Parish • União do Sul Elderly Ministry • Nossa Senhora da Rosa Mística Mothers' Club • Baptist Church National • Association of Parents and Friends of the Disabled (Apae) Vera36 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR • Casa da Amizade • Child and Family Support Association • Associação Social Evangélica Dorcas • Santa Maria Support House • Raio de Luz• Casa do Oleiro • Lar São Francisco • Nova Aliança Social Project • Escola Sorriso Esperança do Ajante (Apae) • Associação dos Amigos da Criança e do Adolescente • Associação Mãezinha do Céu • Lions Club • Lutheran Action Center SocialSorriso • Association of Retirees, Pensioners and Elderly Von Den Stein • Amar para Inclur Association • Community Pastoral • Rotary Club Joia do CerradoNova Ubiratã • Feliz Viver Special Education School (Apae) • Community Association for Guidance and Learning for AdolescentsFeliz Natal37 Local development • Pastoral da Criança • Rotary Club • Associação Pestalozzi • Lions ClubeCláudia • Residents' Association of the Primavera District Primavera District • League of Amateur Sports • Club for the Elderly and Better Ages • National Baptist Church • Club for the Elderly of Good with Life District of Boa Esperança • Carmense Artistic and Cultural Association • Renovated Presbyterian Church • Associação Celeiro Bom de BolaSanta CarmemFundo Social Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR held by car to Apae de Sorriso In August, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR delivered a new car to Apae de Sorriso. Escola Sorriso Esperança do Ajante was one of the 49 entities benefited from resources from the Cooperative's Social Fund and will use the car in the project that provides home care for students. Around 200 people with special needs are assisted by the entity. As president Maria Inez Lazzaris Ferlin explains, due to the new Coronavirus pandemic, Apae needed to adapt and, in this sense, also promote adjustments in the way it serves families and students. "This vehicle is very useful in carrying out activities and We will make home visits with him. Today, in times of pandemic, Apae is providing home care to children who cannot be present at school", highlighted the manager. The director of Escola Apae, Geovana Bottega, highlighted that home care will reach students with greater comorbidity and who cannot travel to Apae. “The professionals go to the students' homes to provide care. Physiotherapist, speech therapist, the teacher and, sometimes, the social worker and psychologist”. In 2021, in total, the Social Fund allocated R$600,000 to entities operating in the eight cities and three districts where Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR is present. 14 Sorriso projects are benefiting in 2021. Car donated to Apae de Sorriso Apae de Sorriso receives car donation The president of the cooperative financial institution, Laercio Pedro Lenz, highlights that the role of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR is to be alongside the community and that actions of this nature, which occur Thanks to the Social Fund, they are only possible because they rely on the partnership of the associate. "In the cooperative, the economic and social pillars go together and the results obtained return to society in the form of distinct projects. Furthermore, the resources allocated to the entities are a reflection of the good relationship between members and Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR", highlighted Lenz . The business director of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, Lucimar João de Luca, talks about how important it is to be able to help the community. “We say that it is not Sicredi that is donating, but the cooperative's members who participate and allow us to promote programs like this, which qualify the service provided by social entities,” he said. In 17 years of the Social Fund, the cooperative financial institution allocated R$4.1 million as a form of financial support to charitable entities.38 Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR 39 Local development A União Faz a Vida Program The focus of the A União program makes Life is the an audience of children and teenagers who, from an early age, are encouraged to have a complete vision of the place where they live and how the spirit of cooperation is fundamental. It is Sicredi's main education program and aims to build and experience attitudes and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. Because people who ask, grow! And as part of its commitment to the community, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR continued to hold A União faz a Vida in 2021 in the municipalities of Sorriso and Feliz Natal, paying attention to the scenario also experienced in public health. In a year like 2021, where the persistence of the new Coronavirus pandemic also made education re-signify its processes, educators also needed to establish new work dynamics, since, for the most part, the class regime still remained hybrid. In this sense, taking into account all these factors, the A União faz a Vida program also carried out speciﬁc actions with groups of teachers. One example was the live “Teachers in Pandemic. Find out how to take care of emotional health”, held for educators in the municipality of Sorriso, after the Program Meeting with Education managers Interview given to TV de Sorriso to talk about the Program A União Faz A Vida, a partnership between City Hall, through the Secretariat Municipal Education and Culture (Semec) and Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR. “The União faz a Vida Program goes beyond projects carried out in the classroom. He gives this support, this support to teachers, especially in this moment we are living in”, highlights the Cooperative Development advisor at Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, Aline Dessbesell. Other activities also marked the year for the A União Faz a Vida program. For example, the 2021 Webinar, “Innovating in education: breaking paradigms and reevaluating teaching practice” and which worked on the theme “Active methodologies: engagement and learning”, with speaker Leandro Holanda. Partnership between Sorriso City Hall and Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR. For Merry Christmas, the lecture “Together we build learning and education” was also held, with professor Dr. Geraldo Peçanha. In Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR's area of ​​activity, the Program is currently developed in two municipalities: in Feliz Natal – since 2009 - and in Sorriso – since 2014. In the latter city, it is present in municipal schools Valter Leite Pereira and Rui Barbosa and gives students the opportunity to experience and build values ​​of cooperation and citizenship. In 2021, we transform lives through sport In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR was once again at the side of the community, supporting activities that promote cooperation, development and transformation. One of these examples is sport. The cooperative is a partner and one of the main supporters of sport in Sorriso, with sponsorships granted to the Handball and Athletics Associations. Last year, the partnership was renewed again, with support being essential to assist associations in their work schedules with athletes of different ages. Coach Cristiano Fripp, from the Sorrisense Handball Association, highlights the importance of this relationship. “The support of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR has been fundamental in the growth of handball in the city of Sorriso. It is a partnership that has been going on for several years and has helped us maintain and reveal great talents for our local handball and, logically, for Brazilian handball. This partnership has provided us with a lot of growth signiﬁcant, mainly, in the results and achievements in this last decade”, pointed out Fripp. Supporting sport means being present in the lives of people directly involved in projects both on and off the court. And since the pandemic began, still in 2020, the cooperative and the association have been even closer. Interest in the community is among the principles of cooperativism. In other words, it is already in our DNA and that is why Sicredi Celeiro works for sustained development of the communities where it is present, through various actions. “Sorriso athletics has been showing its strength and the potential of its athletes, always with the support of Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR. This investment that Sicredi makes in the project is entirely aimed at children, students, and the local community that is participating in athletics. It is extremely important to promote”, explains Marcos Vieira, coach at the Athletics Association. Who is an athlete in either of the two sports entities, expresses the feeling of pride in representing the team and carrying the name of the cooperative on their chest. “We are proud to carry Sicredi’s name far and wide”, says athlete Isabele Cristina de Almeida, from Smile athletics. 41 Relationship and cooperativism Sicredi in the Community www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade In this document, the administration of the cooperative Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2021, together with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity of the communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing the commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of associates and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which made it possible to expand our offering options suited to each person’s needs in resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, app), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via What-sApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person in all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of business for members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions in emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of the women entrepreneurs credit line, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction in rates for advances on card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed exemption from card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out to reduce the rate of administration of groups in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibilization of the deadline for payment of credit in kind for consortium quotas already covered. Some functionalities in digital channels were also automated to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via an app, among others. On another front, the cooperative acted in numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are located gifts. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program’s actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​activity, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that were intended for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Core Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, the various safety and Covid-19 prevention measures remained in place, including temperature checking, provision of alcohol gel and restriction of access to avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For the teams, in the work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and ﬁxed internal communications with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from in-person work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts.In this document, the administration of the Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR cooperative, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2021, together with mind with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in the communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of members and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And how it is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which has made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to each individual's needs in resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, application), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow us to carry out most of the operations without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person in all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of associates’ businesses and of local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of the women entrepreneurs credit line, extension of the deadline for real estate credit line and reduction in fees for advances on card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed the exemption of card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously deﬁned criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind for consortium quotas already covered. Some functionalities in digital channels were also automated to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through the digital service and possibility of registering security devices via app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the actions of the program in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program also did not stop in 2020. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​activity, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperate Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Nuclei. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, the various safety and Covid-19 prevention measures remained in place, including temperature checking, provision of alcohol gel and restriction of access to avoid crowding. Care for employee teams also remained present throughout 2021. For the teams, in the work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were set up with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from in-person work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts. Accountability In this document, the administration of the Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR cooperative, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in accordance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2021, together with the auditors' report independent on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in the communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of our residents. associates and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to each individual's needs when resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (cash automatic, internet banking, app), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person at all branches, following the authorities' protocols health and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of the business of members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of tion of the women entrepreneur credit line, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction of rates to advance card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed exemption from card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind for consortium quotas already covered. They were also Automated some functionalities on digital channels to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​operation, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, the various safety and Covid-19 prevention measures remained in place, including These include measuring temperatures, providing alcohol gel and restricting access to avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For teams, in work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were set up with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from face-to-face work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts.Results Throughout 2021, our partnership made a difference. Our cooperative and responsible management was reflected in our financial and operational results. In the On the next pages you can see the financial report for last year's financial year. Focusing on the growth and development of members and the community, the Cooperative values ​​a model based on adequate levels of liquidity capital, which allow responsible business expansion. 73,078,5104.9 2019 2020 2021Result 55,45867,60082,340 2019 2020 2021Members 1,410,91,719.02,104.2 2019 2020 2021Credit Operations 2,241.8 2,877 .3 3,656.6 2019 2020 2021SosResourcesTotals 340.2 341.4 359.0 2019 2020 2021Consortia 296.5 410.6 457.9 2019 2020 2021Savings430.3 491.0 574.1 2019 2020 2021Net worth 1,010.3 1,488.6 2,021.0 2019 2020 2021Total Deposits 31.5 34.9 37.6 2019 2020 2021InsuranceIn this document, the administration of the Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR cooperative, following the principle of cooperativism of transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ended December 31st 2021, together with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contribute to improving the quality of life of members and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which has made it possible to expand the range of options suited to each individual's needs in resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, app), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating face-to-face in all agencies, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of the business of members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of tion of the credit line for women entrepreneurs, extension of the deadline for real estate credit line and reduction in fees for advances on card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed exemption from card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments and the ﬂexibility of the deadline for paying credit in kind. consortium quotas already covered. Some functionalities in digital channels were also automated to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via an app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In the year 2021, despite all the challenges provoked by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the 15 agencies of the Cooperative promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​activity, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also carried out the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, the various measures remained of safety and prevention of Covid-19, including temperature measurement, provision of alcohol gel and restriction of access to avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For teams, in work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were set up with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed the pregnant women from face-to-face work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts. (Share Capital, Reserves, Accumulated Result). *Before Fates Destinations. (Sight deposits, Term deposits, other Deposits). (Sight deposits, Term deposits, Savings, Funds, Pensions, Collections, Transfers, Net Equity). (Credit operations minus Provisions, plus Co-obligations and Risks of Guarantees Provided).45 Accountability MANAGEMENT REPORT In this document, the administration of the cooperative Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Statements Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2021, together with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing the commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of members and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which has made it possible to expand the range of options suited to each individual's needs in the resumption and maintenance of business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, app), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person in all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of the business of members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of line tion of credit for women entrepreneurs, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction of rates for advances on card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed exemption from card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration rate in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind of consortium quotas already covered. Some functionalities in digital channels were also automated to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via an app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following the biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Fund Social part of the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​activity, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. In serving members in In our 15 branches, the various safety and Covid-19 prevention measures remained in place, including temperature checks, provision of alcohol gel and restricted access to avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For teams, in work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were set up with alerts and prevention and care tips. Having In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from in-person work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts.46Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR In this document, the administration of the cooperative Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2021, together with the auditors' report independent on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi maintained the cycle virtuoso of living cooperativism. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in the communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of members and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of associates and the regions where we are present, which made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to each person's needs in resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, application), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow the majority of operations to be carried out without the need for going to agencies. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person in all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of the business of members and local communities, they were several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of the women entrepreneurs credit line, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction in fees for advances on card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed card machines to be exempted for a period of three months for members within the previously deﬁned criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind for consortium quotas already covered. Some functionalities in digital channels were also automated to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and possibility of registering security devices via application, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program’s actions in the region of the Cooperative. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program also did not stop in 2020. Training and lectures were promoted, as well as local, regional and interstate in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​activity, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through the actions of the Day of More than 14.3 thousand people cooperate. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Cores. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, various safety and Covid-19 prevention measures remained in place, including temperature checks, provision of alcohol gel and restricted access to avoid crowding. Care for employee teams BALANCE SHEET (In thousands of Reais) Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR CNPJ/MF nº 26.555.235/0001-33The Board of Directors and Board of Directors also remained present throughout 2021. For the teams, in the work environments, they were Alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were posted with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from in-person work throughout the entire period of pandemic. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts. 3,273, 127 2, 483, 256 LIABILITIES 2,703, 575 1,995, 671 AVAILABILITY (Note 04) 24,534 21,251 DEPOSITS (Note 12) 2, 021, 008 1,488, 834 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 3,236, 852 2,467, 353 Demand deposits 767, 509 565, 222 Inter-financial liquidity applications (Note 05) 76,661 6,564 Interﬁnancial deposits 73,853 10,918 Securities and securities (Note 06) 688, 763 528, 250 Term deposits 1,179, 646 912, 694 Financial centralization (Note 04) 550, 682 459, 530 OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 512, 706 397, 638 Interrelations ﬁnancial 77 46 Relationships interﬁnancial (Note 13) 492, 922 382, ​​351 Credit operations (Note 07) 1, 785, 439 1, 390, 095 Obligations for transfers (Note 14) 1,171 2,085 Other financial assets (Note 08) 135, 230 82,868 Other financial liabilities (Note 15) 18,613 13,202 PROVISIONS FOR EXPECTED LOSSES ASSOCIATED WITH CREDIT RISK (Note 07) ( 131, 513) ( 101, 617) PROVISIONS FOR CIVIL, TAX AND LABOR RISKS (Note 16) 614 521 OTHER ASSETS (Note 09) 8,471 5,346 OTHER LIABILITIES (Note 17) 169, 247 108, 678 INVESTMENTS (Note 10) 68,199 REAL ESTATE USAGE USAGE50,989 (Note 11) 61,260 34,509 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Note 18) 569, 552 487, 585 INTANGIBLE (Note 11) 5,324 5,425 SHARE CAPITAL 235, 507 210, 359 SURPLUS RESERVES 288, 836 242, 734 SURPLUS OR ACCUMULATED LOSSES 45,209 34,492 TOTAL ASSETS 3,273, 127 2,483, 256 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 3,273, 127 2, 483 , 256ACTIVE 12/31/2021 31/ 12/2020 LIABILITIES 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 The explanatory notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements In this document, the administration of the Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR cooperative, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2021, together with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked for resumption. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in the communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of members and society. Our traditional credit lines continued active, as well as the lines of the Public Power’s emergency programs. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to each individual's needs when resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (automated teller machines, internet banking, application), which has made many our demands since these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person in all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of the business of members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of tion of the women entrepreneurs credit line, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction of rates for advances on card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed card machines to be exempted for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind for consortium quotas already covered. Some functionalities in digital channels were also automated to facilitate and speed up even greater service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The program “A União Faz a Vida” did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, as well as local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of performance, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose lists were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, the various safety and prevention measures against Covid-19 remained in place, including temperature measurement, provision of alcohol gel and restriction of access for avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For teams, in work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were set up with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from in-person work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams from agencies and the Administrative Headquarters for pandemic care. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts. STATEMENTS OF SURPLUS AND LOSSES (In thousands of Reais) Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT /RR CNPJ/MF nº 26.555.235/0001-33 INCOME AND REVENUES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION 150,253 254,362 190,926 Credit operations (Note 07) 108, 017 195, 537 162, 418 Income from securities and securities 23, 970 33, 659 17, 644 Income from interoperable deposits 18, 266 25, 166 10, 8 64 EXPENSES AND EXPENSES FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION (82,619) (107,254) (78,867) Market funding operations (Note 12) (33,139) (45,846) (22,048) Loan and transfer operations (10,185) (15,671) (17,673) Provisions for expected losses associated with credit risk (Note 07) ( 39,295) ( 45,737) ( 39,146) GROSS RESULT FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION 67,634 147,108 112,059 OTHER INCOME AND REVENUE/EXPENSES AND OPERATING EXPENSES (23,722) (33,303) (23,889) Income ss and revenue from the provision of services (Note 21) 31 , 609 62, 242 53, 165 Income from bank fees 6, 541 12, 771 11, 956 Personnel expenses and expenses (Note 22) (24,591) (43,372) (34,629) Other administrative expenses and expenses (Note 23 ) (25,692) (44,354) (36,520) Disp tax expenditures and expenses (275) (535) (1,091) Other operating income and income (Note 24) 8,854 15,957 16,537 Other operating expenditures and expenses (Note 25) (20,168) (36,012) ( 33,307) OPERATING RESULT 43,912 113,805 88,170 RESULT BEFORE TAXATION ON PROFIT AND PARTICIPATION 43,912 113,805 88,170 INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION (Note 19) 610 7 (2,019) Provision for Income Tax 376 7 (1, 236) Provision for Social Contribution 234 - (783) SHARES IN THE LEFTOVERS (5,066) (8,935) (7,633) RESULT OF THE YEAR BEFORE ALLOCATIONS 39,456 104,877 78,518 Description of accounts01/07/2021 to 3 1/12 /2021 (Unaudited)01/01/2021 a 12/31/202101/01/2020 to 12/31/2020 (Represented) The explanatory notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements47 Accountability In this document, the administration of the cooperative Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, following the principle of cooperative transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2021, together with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in the communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of our members and the society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to each individual's needs when resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, application), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person at all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining plus this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of the business of members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of tion of the women entrepreneur credit line, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction of rates for advance payments card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed exemption from card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind for consortium quotas already covered. Some were also automated functionalities on digital channels to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 classes, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​operation, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, the various safety and prevention measures against Covid-19 remained in place, including temperature checking, provision of alcohol gel and restricted access to avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For teams, in work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were set up with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from in-person work throughout the pandemic period. campaigns internal marketing were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts.48Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (In thousands of Reais) Credit Cooperative , Savings and Investment Sorriso - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR CNPJ/MF nº 26.555.235/0001-33 Social Capital Legal ReserveSurplus or Accumulated LossesTotal Balance at the beginning of the year on 01/01/2020 192,969 206,092 28,432 427,493 Allocation of results of the previous year Distribution of surpluses to associates 12.7 72 - (25,492) (12,720) Destinations for reserves - 1,936 (1,936) - Allocation to Social Fund - - (500) (500) Allocation to FATES - - (308) (308) Other destinations - - (196) (196) Associates capital Capital increase 6,597 - - 6,597 Capital write-offs (7,637) - - (7,637) Result for the period - - 78,518 78,518 F ATES destinations - Statutory - - (3,449) (3,449) Interest on equity 5,658 - (5,871) (213) Legal reserve - Statutory - 31,043 ( 31,043) - Reserve legal - Loss recovery - 3,663 (3,663) - Balance at the end of the year on 12/31/2020 210,359 242,734 34,492 487,585 Changes in the year 17,390 36,642 6,060 60,092 Balances at the beginning of the year exercise on 01/01/2021 210,359 242,734 34,492 487,585 Allocation of results from previous year Distribution of surpluses to members 16,578 - (33,146) (16,568) Allocations to reserves - 504 (504) - Allocation to Social Fund - - (600) (600) Other destinations - - (242) (242) Associate capital Capital increase 7,743 - - 7,743 Capital write-offs (8,186) - - (8,186) Result for the period - - 104, 877 104, 877 F ATES destinations - Statutory - - (4,521) (4,521) Interest on equity 9,013 - (9,549) (536) Legal reserve - Statutory - 40,688 (40,688) - Legal reserve - Loss recovery - 4,910 (4,910) - Balance at the end of the year on 12/31/2021 235,507 288,836 45,209 569,552 Year Changes 25,148 46,102 10,717 81,967 Balance at the beginning of the semester on 7/1/2021 (Not audited) 226,744 243,238 65,421 535,403 Associate capital Capital increase 4,006 - - 4,006 Capital write-offs (4,256) - - (4,256) Half-year result - - 39,456 39.45 6 Des FATES - Statutory - - (4,521) (4,521) Interest on own capital 9,013 - (9,549) (536) Legal reserve - Statutory - 40,688 (40,688) - Legal reserve - Loss recovery - 4,910 (4,910) - Balance at the end of the year on 12/31/2021 235,507 288,836 45,209 569,552 Changes in the Semester 8,763 45,598 (20,211) 34,150 The explanatory notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements In this document, the administration of the cooperative Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in accordance with the legal and statutory provisions, discloses the Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2021, together with the independent auditors' report on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to members of cooperatives, we support the maintenance of economic activity in communities in the regions where We work by reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of our associates and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which made it possible to expand the offer of options suited to each person's needs. in resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (ATMs, internet banking, app), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via What-sApp, which brings even more agility to many of the requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person in all branches, following the protocols of the health authorities and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of business for members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of the women entrepreneurs credit line, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction of rates for advances on card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed exemption from card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments. ments and also the flexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind of consortium quotas already covered. Some functionalities in digital channels were also automated to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via an app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual meetings and in person, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​activity, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. At the service to members in our 15 branches, the various safety and Covid-19 prevention measures remained in place, including temperature checking, provision of alcohol gel and restriction of access to avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For teams, in work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications with alerts and tips were posted. prevention and care. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from in-person work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts.49 Accountability STATEMENTS CASH FLOWS (In thousands of Reais) Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR CNPJ/MF nº 26.555.235/0001-33 07/01/2021 to 12/31/2021 (Unaudited)01 /01/2021 to 12/31/202101/01/2020 to 12/31/2020 (Resubmitted) RESULT OF THE SEMESTRE/EXERCISE AFTER ADJUSTMENTS TO THE RESULT 68,835 135,208 110,332 Result of the semester re/exercise 39,456 104,877 78,518 ADJUSTMENTS TO THE RESULTS OF THE SEMESTER/FYEAR 29,379 30,331 31,814 Provision for expected losses associated with credit risk 31,233 29,896 29,803 Depreciation and amortization 2,558 4,808 4,297 Asset write-offs permanent 49 55 1,115 Provision for civil, tax and labor risks 60 93 48 Allocations to FATES (4,521) (4,521) (3,449) VARIATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (254,745) 76,368 267,631 (Increase) Reduction in interﬁnancial liquidity applications (70,339) (70,097) 148,149 (Increase) in securities and securities (109,491) (110,484) (1,999) (Increase) Reduction in interﬁnancial relations ces a tivas 18,763 (31) 27 (Increase) in credit operations (307,762) (395,344) (323,651) Increase (Decrease) in passive interﬁnancial relations 136,502 110,571 (45,312) (Increase) in other ﬁnancial assets (39,888) (52,362) (24 .046 ) (Increase) Decrease in other assets (4,043) (3,125) 2,509 Increase in deposits 68,614 532,174 478,317 Increase in ﬁnancial liabilities 1,413 5,411 377 Increase (Reduction) in loan obligations and transfers (552) (914) 2,085 Absorption of expenditures for eloFATES (1,276) (1,617) (1,609) Increase in other liabilities 53,314 62,186 32,784 OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES - Net cash provided/(applied) (185,910) 211,576 377,963 Acquisition of investments (12,022 ) (17,210) (5,105) Acquisition of fixed assets for use (25,386) (29,822) (6,026) Investments in intangible assets (858) (1,691) (1,394) INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES - Net cash sourced/(applied) (38,266) (48,723) ( 12,525) Integration of capital total 4,006 7,743 6,597 Write-off of capital (4,256) (8,186) (7,637) Interest on equity (536) (536) (213) Distribution of Surplus - (17,410) (13,724) FINANCING ACTIVITIES - Cash net proceeds and/(applied) (786) (18,389) (14,977) NET INCREASE/DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT (224,962) 144,464 350,461 Cash and cash equivalent at the beginning of the period 1,376,458 1,007,032 656, 571 Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the period (Note 04) 1,151,496 1,151,496 1,007,032 The explanatory notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements In this document, the management of the cooperative Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR, following the cooperative principle of transparency in management and in compliance with legal and statutory provisions, publishes the Financial Statements for the year ending on December 31, 2021, together with the auditors' report independent on the Financial Statements. The year 2021 was marked by recovery. Even with the pandemic scenario, which lasted throughout the year, Sicredi kept the virtuous cycle of cooperativism alive. Through credit lines granted to cooperative members, we support the maintenance of economic activity in the communities in the regions where we operate, reinforcing our commitment to our mission of adding income and contributing to improving the quality of life of our residents. associates and society. Our traditional lines of credit continued to be active, as did the lines of emergency programs from the Government. And, as is characteristic of our business model, we closely monitor the reality of our associates and the regions where we are present, which has made it possible to expand the range of options suited to each individual's needs in resuming and maintaining business. We continue to expand the offer of solutions in electronic means of service (cash automatic, internet banking, app), which made many of our demands viable as these are channels that allow most operations to be carried out without the need to go to branches. We also have telephone channels that can be used to answer questions and provide assistance via WhatsApp, which brings even more agility to many requests. In parallel, we returned to operating in person at all branches, following the authorities' protocols health and maintaining this relationship channel with our associates. Focused on the objective of contributing to the development of the business of members and local communities, several actions were developed during the 2021 financial year, including credit campaigns with reduced rates, credit concessions on emergency lines (Pronampe), implementation of tion of the women entrepreneur credit line, extension of the term for the real estate credit line and reduction of rates to advance card receivables. A partnership was also signed with FCDL in the Christmas Campaign, which allowed exemption from card machines for a period of three months for members meeting the previously defined criteria. In addition, a consortium campaign was carried out with a reduction in the group administration fee in almost all segments and also the ﬂexibility of the deadline for payment of credit in kind for consortium quotas already covered. They were also Automated some functionalities on digital channels to further facilitate and speed up service to members, generating more autonomy for them through digital service and the possibility of registering security devices via app, among others. On another front, the cooperative worked on numerous initiatives to contribute to the development of the community where it operates. In 2021, despite all the challenges caused by the pandemic scenario, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR promoted 485 actions involving the topic of Financial Education, through the “Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis” program. During the period, 10,274 people followed the program's actions in the region where the Cooperative operates. In addition to Financial Education, Cooperativism was also disseminated in the communities where we are present. Through virtual and in-person meetings, following biosafety protocols, employees from the Cooperative's 15 agencies promoted actions under the Crescer Program. During the year, 204 groups were formed, involving 4,919 people. The “A União Faz a Vida” program did not stop in 2020 either. Training and lectures were promoted, in addition to local, regional and interstate meetings in digital format with teachers and communities involved. During the period, 213 educators and 3,037 students were impacted by the program's actions. In 2021, through the Social Fund included in the “Sicredi na Comunidad” program, the Cooperative also financially supported the development of 50 projects carried out by 49 non-profit entities in its area of ​​operation, directly benefiting 36,670 people. Furthermore, the Cooperative benefited, through Cooperation Day actions, more than 14.3 thousand people. Among the highlighted actions is the collection of around 7 tons of food that was destined for families in situations of social vulnerability. In 2021, Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR also held the first digital Nucleus Assembly, with the presence of 5,795 members. At the Assembly, members were able to meet and elect the new Boards of Directors (2021 to 2024) and Fiscal Council (2021 to 2023), whose slates were unanimously approved by the Centers. The Ordinary General Assembly (AGO) was held live via digital transmission and was attended by 71 Center Coordinators able to vote. When serving members in our 15 branches, the various safety and Covid-19 prevention measures remained in place, including These include measuring temperatures, providing alcohol gel and restricting access to avoid crowding. Care for teams of employees also remained present throughout 2021. For teams, in work environments, alcohol gel, masks were also made available and internal communications were set up with alerts and prevention and care tips. In view of Law 14,151/2021, Sicredi removed pregnant women from face-to-face work throughout the pandemic period. Internal marketing campaigns were developed with the aim of guiding teams at agencies and the Administrative Headquarters to take care of the pandemic. At the Cooperative, a Crisis Committee was established to discuss action plans and monitor all matters related to the pandemic and other fronts.50Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR COMPREHENSIVE RESULTS STATEMENTS (In thousands of Reais) Credit Cooperative, Savings and Investment Smile - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR CNPJ/MF nº 26.555.235/0001-33 EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (In thousands of Reais) Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR CNPJ/MF nº 26.555.235/ 0001-3301/07/2021 to 12/31/2021 (Unaudited)01/01/2021 to 12/31/202101/01/2020 to 12/31/2020 Net income for the year 39,456 104,877 78,518 Other comprehensive results - - - Comprehensive result attributable 39,456 104,877 78,518 The explanatory notes are an integral part of the Financial Statements The execution of activities complies with the provisions of the relevant legislation, as well as official regulatory acts, the bylaws, and Sicredi's internal rules. Sicredi, as of December 31, 2021, is organized by 108 affiliated Credit Cooperatives, which operate with a service network of 2,127 points, of which the Cooperative operates 18 service points. The structure also has five Regional Centers – shareholders of Sicredi Partipaç ões S.A. (“SicrediPar”) – the Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives (“Confederação Sicredi”), a Foundation together with Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A. (“Bank”). The Cooperative is an integral part of the Credit Cooperative Guarantee Fund (F GCoop), a civil association non-profit, with legal personality under private law of national scope, as per annex I to the resolution of the National Monetary Council ("CMN") no. 4. 284, of November 5, 2013. OFGCoop's purpose is to provide a guarantee of credits in cases of decree of intervention or extrajudicial liquidation of an associated institution, up to the limit of R$ 250 per member (CPF/CNPJ), as well as contracting assistance operations, financial support and of liquidity with these ins titutions. The Cooperative is also an integral part of Sicredi Fundos Garan tidores, a non-profit company whose reserve formation comes from monthly and extraordinary contributions from cooperatives associated with the fund whose purpose is to ensure credibility and the solvency of its associates. According to the rules established in the Guarantee Fund Regulations, monthly contributions are calculated by the sum of two installments: fixed portion, related to the objective asset of each Fund; and variable portion, related to the risk attributed to the System (considers levels of liquid, capital margin and use of security devices). NOTE 01 – OPERATIONAL CONTEXT The Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative So rriso - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR ("C ooperative"), is a cooperative ﬁnancial institution, affiliated to the Central Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative of the Central North of Brazil - Central Sicredi Centro Norte (" Central") and member of the Sicredi Cooperative System (“Sicredi”). The Cooperative is a non-banking ﬁnancial institution, authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil ("Bacen") with activities beginning on 02/10/1990 and headquartered at Av. Natalino Joao Brescansin, 124, in the city de Sorriso - Mato Grosso. The main objectives of the Cooperative are: i) Developing savings programs, appropriate use of credit and provision of services, practicing all active operations, to assets and accessories specific to credit unions; ii) Provide, through mutual assistance, financial assistance to members in their specific activities; iii) Act in the training and education of its associates, with a view to promoting cooperation.51 Accountability INCOME AND REVENUES FROM FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION OTHER INCOME AND REVENUES/OPERATING EXPENSES AND EXPENSES VARIATION IN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES INCREASE/ NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT CASH Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (Note 04) Availability Financial centralization Total a) Calculation of results Income and expenditure, as well as income and expenses , are recorded monthly in accordance with the accrual regime, which establishes that inflows and expenditures and revenues and expenses must be included in the calculation of results for the periods in which they occur, always simultaneously when they are correlated, regardless of receipt or payment, allocated proportionally according to the amounts of gross income from a cooperative act and the gross revenue from a non-cooperative act, when not identiﬁed with each activity. The results of any operations carried out with non-cooperative members (non-cooperative act) are determined and the taxes due are collected. The results of these operations are taken to the Fund's account Technical, Educational and Social Assistance - FATES, as provided for in Law No. 5. 764/71. Authorization for the completion of these financial statements was granted by the Board on February 23, 2022. NOTE 03 – SUMMARY OF MAIN PRACTICES The main accounting practices adopted to prepare the financial statements were: 459, 530 - 459, 530 480, 781 526, 251 1, 007, 032 21, 251 - 21, 251 Shares in fixed income and multimarket funds - financial centralization (Note 06) - 526, 251 526, 251CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT Previously PresentedReclassiﬁcation Represented 12/31/2020 Adjustment 12/31/2020 279, 737 376, 834 656, 571 480, 781 526, 251 1, 007, 032 (Increase) Reduction in titles and mobile values ( 151, 416) 149, 417 (1, 999) 12/31/2020 Adjustment 12/31/2020 NON-OPERATING RESULT ( 945) 945 - Other operating income and income (Note 24) 27, 085 ( 10,548) 16, 537 Other operating expenses and expenses (Note 25) (32,046) (1, 261) (33,307) 190, 926 Income Interc ooperative deposits - 10, 864 10, 864The amounts claimed The financial statements have been prepared and are being presented in accordance with the regulations issued by the National Monetary Council - CMN and the Central Bank of Brazil - BACEN, including CMN Resolution No. 4. 818/20 and BCB Resolution No. 2/20 which regulated procedures for preparing and publishing financial statements. The regulatory standards contained in the Accounting Plan of the Institutions of the National Financial System - COSI F, the Accounting Pronouncements approved by BACEN (CPCs 01,02,03,04,05,10,23,24,25) were also observed. , 27, 33 and 46) and the legislation applied to credit cooperatives, especially the provisions of Laws No. 4, 595/64 and No. 5,764/71, as amended by Complementary Law No. 130/09. Re-presentation of comparative figures: Management is re-presenting the balances of the 2020 financial statements, presented for comparison purposes, resulting from error rectification adjustments in accordance with the provisions of CPC 23, as below: (a) Inflows of intercooperative deposits in the statements of surpluses and losses In 2021, the inflows of intercooperative deposits were reclassified, for comparison purposes, recorded on December 31, 2020 as other income and operating income. The cooperative understands that the values ​​applied to the Centrals via Financial Centralization are not characterized as other operating income and income, as previously adopted, and should be considered as income and income from financial intermediation. In this operation, the amounts raised in centralization will be applied by the Bank in the market, generating revenue for the ﬁnancial intermediation, and remunerated to the centers via centralization. As it is an applied treasury resource, the nature of this revenue is characterized as Financial Intermediation, therefore this classification is the most appropriate. (b) Non-operating result Among the regulatory changes resulting from BCB Resolution No. 2/20 was a change in the way in which the statements of surpluses or losses were presented. The cooperative understands that the balance relates to the surplus or losses of the result non-operational is no longer an integral part of this statement, as previously adopted. In this way, the cooperative reclassified the balances by nature in the account groups of other operating income and income and other operating expenditure and expenses, in order to favor the comparability of the financial statements. (c) Cash and cash equivalents and securities in the cash flow statements Additionally, they were identified complaints related to the change in the centralization model in which the Cooperatives began to invest part of their short-term resources in fixed income and multimarket funds, which have immediate convertibility into a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of value, making it possible to classify as cash and cash equivalent in accordance with the premises of CPC 03. The aforementioned correction affected the initial cash and cash equivalent and end of the period ending on December 31, 2020, as well as the movement of securities where they were previously presented. NOTE 02 – PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ( 12,080) ( 11,809) ( 23,889) 180, 062 10, 86452Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR The portfolio is made up of ﬁxed income securities, variable income securities and investment funds, which are presented at cost plus income earned up to the balance sheet date, adjusted to the respective market values, as per applicable. e) Interﬁnancial relations – ﬁnancial centralization Financial centralization comprises the cooperative’s cash surpluses not invested in its activities, which are centralized through interﬁnancial transfers ﬁnancial resources for the Central Cooperative. These amounts are invested in the financial market and/or lent to affiliated cooperatives to finance their activities and have immediate liquidity and monthly remuneration. f) Credit operationsCash and cash equivalents are represented by the availability, the values ​​invested by the Cooperatives in the Centrals via Financial Centralization and the shares of fixed income and multimarket funds, whose operations mature. on the date of effective application is equal to or less than 90 days and present an insignificant risk of change in fair value. c) Interﬁnancial liquidity applications These represent operations at ﬁxed prices referring to purchases of securities with a resale commitment and applications in interﬁnancial deposits and are stated at redemption value, net of income to be appropriated with responding to future periods. d) Securities and securities In the year ending 31st December 2021, the Cooperative presented a net result of R$ 3, 262 (2020 - R$ 9, 631) referring to Non-Cooperative Acts. b) Cash and cash equivalents Fixed assets and other non-current assets, including intangible assets, are reviewed annually to identify evidence of non-recoverable losses, or even, whenever events or changes in Circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. When this is the case, the rec value surable value is calculated to check if there is a loss. When there is a loss, it is recognized by the amount by which the asset's book value exceeds its recoverable value, which is the greater of the net sales price and the value in use of an asset. n) Deposits, loan disputes and transfers Corresponds to rights that have as their object tangible assets intended for the maintenance of activities or exercised with e sseﬁnality. It is shown at the acquisition cost, deducted from the depreciation of fixed assets in use, which is calculated using the straight-line method, based on the annual rates mentioned in the Note "Fixed assets in use and intangible assets", which take into account the useful economic life of the assets. The useful life of assets and depreciation methods are reviewed at the end of each year in accordance with the criteria defined by CPC 27 - Fixed Assets, which was approved by CMN Resolution No. 4.535/16. l ) Intangible Intangible assets are goods incorporeal, non-monetary, identifiable without physical substance, intended for the maintenance of the system or exercised with purpose and in the generation of future economic benefits, acquired or developed by the institution. It is shown at cost values ​​and includes expenses in the acquisition and development of software, adjusted by accumulated amortizations, calculated from the moment the respective benefits begin to be enjoyed, based on interest rates. naked fish take into account the economic useful life of the assets, in accordance with the provisions of CMN Resolution No. 4. 534/16 and CPC 04 - Intangible Assets, as mentioned in the Note "Use and intangible assets". Accumulated amortizations, calculated from the moment the respective benefits begin to be enjoyed, at a rate of 10% to 20% per year, using the straight-line method. m) Reduction in the recoverable value of assetsStated at acquisition cost, including, when applicable, the income earned and pro-rata die monetary variations incurred and exchange rate variations, less the corresponding provisions for losses or adjustment to market value and income to be appropriated. j) Investments They are stated at acquisition cost, refer to participation in companies in the Sicredi System, adjusted by provision for losses when applicable. k) Fixed assets for useh) Non-financial assets held for sale Non-financial assets held for sale, determined by CMN Resolution No. 4. 747/19, are segregated into own and received from third parties. These assets do not depreciate and are measured at fair value in accordance with the criteria established by CPC 46, which was approved by CMN Resolution No. 4. 748/19. • Own: represent assets owned by the cooperative which are not used in the performance of social activity, being available for immediate sale and whose disposal is highly likely within the maximum period of uman. • Received from third parties: represent goods received as a gift in payment of debts, not intended for personal use. i) Other current and long-term assets (non-current) The updating of credit operations due within 59 days is accounted for in income from credit operations, and from the 60th day onwards, in income to be appropriated. Operations classified as level “H” remain in this classiﬁcation for six months, when they are then downloaded against the existing provision and controlled, for at least five years, in offset accounts, no longer appearing in the balance sheet. g) Provision for expected losses associated with credit risk The provision for expected losses associated with credit risk is based on the analysis of operations and takes into account the economic situation, past experience, specific risks ﬁcial and global portfolios, considering the provisioning criteria, deﬁned in the Resolutions No. 2. 682/99 and No. 2. 697/00 of the CMN, associated with the assessments carried out by the Administration, in determining credit risks. They are stated at cost plus income earned. Credit operations are classified according to the Administration's analysis regarding the level of risk, considering the economic situation and the specific risks in relation to the operations, debtors and guarantors, observing the parameters established in the Resolutions s) Functional currency The financial statements are presented in the functional currency, which is the real (R$), and the information, except when indicated otherwise, in thousands of reais (R$ thousand). t) Recurring and non-recurring results Recurring results are those that are related to the characteristic activities of the Cooperative that occur frequently in the present and are expected to occur in the future, while non-recurring results are those that arise from an extraordinary and/or unpredictable event, with the tendency not to be repeated in the future.r) Main judgments and accounting estimates Accounting estimates are determined by the Administration, considering factors and assumptions established based on judgment, which are reviewed each semester. Significant items subject to these estimates and assumptions include provisions for expected losses associated with the credit risk, adjustment of assets to the probable value of realization or recovery, provisions for contingencies, among others. Settlement of transactions involving these estimates may result in divergent values ​​due to inaccuracies inherent in the process of their determination. I - Provision for expected losses associated with credit risk: In addition to observing the requirements for constituting a provision due to delays in the payment of a portion of the principal or encashment organs of operations, the provision is calculated based on the Administration's judgment regarding the level of risk, considering the economic situation, the specific risks in relation to the operation, debtors and guarantors, periods of delay and the economic group, observing the parameters established in CMN Resolutions No. 2. 682/99 and No. 2. 697/00. The details of the provision for losses are presented in NOTE TA07; II - Provision for civil, tax and labor risks: With based on loss prognoses assessed by the Administration, constituting a provision for tax, civil, tax and labor demands through legal assessments. The assessment of loss prognoses takes into account the probability of the entity's disbursements for each procedural element and may involve a high degree of judgment the greater the uncertainty. The details of provisions and contingent liabilities are presented in NOTE16; III - Re reduction to the recoverable value of intangible assets and other assets: the loss test due to reduction in the recoverable value of these assets is carried out, at least annually, in order to determine whether there is any indication that a asset may have suffered from undervaluation. When the recoverable value of these assets cannot be obtained through external sources, the assessment of the recoverable value of these assets may involve considerable judgments, especially when measuring the potential future economic benefits to associates; IV - Measurement of the effects resulting from covid-19 in the Financial Statements and impacts on the Cooperative: The administration monitors the evolution of its operations, which includes monitoring capital and liquidity levels, the credit risk behavior of assets, market risks and their financial instruments, the production of new credit operations and the evolution of funding. The main effects and i Impacts arising from Covid-19 on the Financial Statements for this period are described, when applicable, in the notes corresponding to the Balance Sheet lines that were affected. The details of the impacts are presented in NOTE 31.q) Provision for civil, tax and labor risks Accounting practices for recording, measuring and disclosing contingent assets and liabilities and also obligations legal, are applied in accordance with the criteria deﬁned by the Technical Pronouncement CPC 25, issued by the Accounting Pronouncements Committee (CPC), which was approved by Resolution No. 3. 823/09, namely: • Contingent assets are recognized only when there are real guarantees or legal decisions favorable court rulings, final and unappealable. Contingent assets with probable success are only disclosed in an explanatory note; • Contingent liabilities are provisioned when losses are assessed as probable and the amounts involved are measurable with sufficient certainty. Contingent liabilities assessed as possible losses are disclosed, and those that cannot be measured with sufficient certainty and as remote losses are not provisioned and/or disclosed; • Legal obligations are recorded as enforceable, regardless of the assessment of the probabilities of success. p) Taxes and contributions Income Tax (IRPJ) and Social Contribution on Net Profit (CS LL) affect the positive result tive in non-cooperative acts. The provision corresponds to the current rates for the IRPJ is 15%, plus an additional 10% and the CSLL in which the rate went from 15% to 20% from July 2021 and will return to 15 % from January 2022, applied to the profit earned, after the adjustments to the calculation base provided for in the legislation and the compensation of tax losses and negative CSLL calculation base from previous years, if this is not the case. reduction limited to 30% of profit tributable. Still at the federal level, cooperatives are subject to contributions to the Social Integration Program (PIS – 0.65%) and Contribution to Social Security Financing (COFINS – 4%) on revenues earned in operations with non-members, after deducting specific items provided for by legislation, such as surpluses calculated in the Statements of Surplus or Losses (DSP). At the municipal level, the cooperative is subject to the incidence of the Tax on Services of Any Nature (I SSQN), calculated from revenue from non-cooperative acts, that is, as a result of the provision of services to non-members; The rates vary between 2% and 5% and are determined by the legislation in force in each municipality. Income resulting from operations carried out with cooperative members is not subject to tax. Interbank deposits are made up of resources received in deposit from other market institutions, in the form current and specific regulations for interbank deposit operations, noting that the institution must maintain internal controls for the purpose of funding limits. Obligations for loans and transfers correspond to resources transferred by Banco C ooperativo Sicredi, C ooperativa Central and other institutions for the purpose of financing operations. o) Other current and long-term liabilities (non-current) are demonstrated by the known or calculable values, including, when applicable, the charges and monetary variations on a pro-rata-day basis incurred, less the corresponding expenses to be appropriated. They are demonstrated by the values ​​of the liabilities, considered charges, exchange rate and monetary variations up to the date of the financial statements, recognized on a pro-rata basis, segregated as follows: Demand deposits are made up of amounts whose availability is immediate to members, therefore, there is no set deadline for moving it, and it is at the discretion of the resource holder to do so according to their needs. Term deposits are made up of amounts agreed to be available within pre-established terms, which are updated by remunerative ﬁnancial charges in accordance with their post-ﬁxed contract and are stated at their redemption value, net of expenses ﬁnancial companies to be decorated.54Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR The market value of federal public securities, part of the investment fund portfolio, was determined based on the quotation obtained from the Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities - ANBIMA. NOTE 07 – CREDIT OPERATIONS The credit portfolio is composed and classified as follows: BACEN Circular No. 3. 068/01, which deals with the classification of securities and securities based on a set of criteria for registration and evaluation accounting of the securities portfolio, does not apply to credit cooperatives. The market value of rural producer notes (CPR) is obtained from the interest curve, based on rates negotiated in the B3 one-day DI futures market, and on credit spreads obtained through the premium risk established for the transaction's counterparty. CPR operations are carried out with members as long as they are guaranteed by the cooperative via a letter of guarantee. joint guarantee and the nature of the Sicredi cooperative system to define a single spread for all counterparties. Fund shares are valued daily, through the value of the share, published by the fund administrator on the CVM and ANBIMA website. Total non-current 1, 029 -Total current 687, 734 528, 250Total 576, 431 111, 303 1, 029 688, 763 528, 250 Multimarket fund shares - financial centralization 576, 280 - - 576, 280 526, 251 Fixed income securities - CPR 151 111, 303 1, 029 1 12, 483 1, 999TotalNOTE 06 – SECURITIES AND SECURITIES Description12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Expiration Up to 3 months 3 to 12 monthsOver 12 monthsTotal DI applications between C ooperatives are carried out with the purpose of providing liquidity, with a rate of remuneration of up to 125% of the C DI. DI applications between Banco Sicredi and the Cooperative are carried out to cover advances of receivables in the acquisition and INSS payroll operations, both carried out by members, with a return rate remuneration of 105% and 100% of the C DI, respectively.Total non-current 10, 694 6, 564Total current 65, 967 -Total 14, 364 51, 603 10, 694 76, 661 6, 564CDIBanco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A. - - 2, 300 2, 300 - DIentre Banco e Coopera tivas - 1, 125 8, 394 9, 519 6, 564 Total Total DIentre Coopera tivas 14, 364 50, 478 - 64, 842 -NOTE 05- INTERFINANCIAL LIQUIDITY APPLICATIONS 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Due Up to 3 months 3 to 12 monthsOver 12 monthsTotal 1, 151, 496 1, 007, 032 Availability and financial liquidity applications are classiﬁed s as cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of presenting the cash flow statement, when complying with the provisions of CPC 03(R2) – Statement of cash ﬂows. Financial centralization is made up of the transfer of cash surpluses from affiliated Cooperatives, with no redemption period, and remunerated according to the rates practiced in the market, which on average in 2021 is equivalent to 99% of the C DI( December 2020 -98%).Shares of fixed income and multimarket funds - financial centralization (Note 06) 576, 280 526, 251 Financial centralization 550, 682 459, 53031/12/2021 12/31/2020 (Represented) Availability 24, 534 21, 251NOTE 04 – CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS In preparing the cash flow statements, classiﬁed as cash and cash equivalents the following amounts:55 Accountability Securities and credits receivable refer to amounts receivable from associates relating to card transactions carried out in the interest-free credit format. AA A B C D EF GH Total- -Provision for expected losses associated with credit risk 15, 998 5, 324 8, 188 8, 399 4, 264 13, 796 8, 485 - % Minimum % Additional (i) 100,0070,0050,0030,0010,003,001,000.50- - 0.49 1.00 2.00 - - -Total 2020 101, 617 63, 294 3, 854 6, 68 3 4, 564 10, 808 4, 038 6, 285 2, 091 Total 1, 910, 807 100. 00 1, 467, 141 100. 00100 following debtors 318, 123 16. 65 264, 734 18. 04 Remaining 1, 137, 916 59. 56 835, 239 56. 9410largest debtors 134, 804 7. 05 102, 172 6. 96 50next debtors 319, 964 16. 74 264, 996 18. 06d) Concentration of credit operations 12/31/2021 % 12/31/2020 %Total non-current 633 , 128 482, 879 1, 467, 141 Circulating total 1, 277, 679 984, 262Total 16, 451 255, 167 1, 006, 061 633, 128 1, 910, 807Legal entities 2, 584 52, 302 102, 113 162, 917 319, 916 202, 938 14, 320 Commerce 1, 220 41, 458                  78, 903               102, 381                    223, 962                        166, 443Industrial                         10                          3, 390                     6, 745                    6, 361                      16, 506                   718, 019                        608, 627 Rural                            -                        24, 949                564, 991                  42, 464                    632, 404                        474, 813Total Portfolio Total PortfolioUp to 3 months 3 to 12monthsOver 12 months Individuals 12, 637 133, 068 253, 309 319, 005As provided in Article 5 of BACEN Resolution No. 4. 800/20 the provision for losses for operations tions included in the Emergency Employment Support Program (PESE) must only apply to the amount equivalent to the Own Capital earmarked for this purpose, and these amounts are being presented together with the provisioned amount of credit operations and other credits. The Cooperative also has obligations in guarantees provided in the amount of R$446,029 (December 2020 - R$428,364) which include operations with resources received from financial institutions and passed on to members via Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A., in which the C ooperative is an intermediary and joint guarantor under a contract signed between the parties (Note 27). The provisions arising from these contracts comprise the amount of R$ 15,415 (December 2020 - R$ 11,643) as per Note 15. c) Composition of the credit portfolio segregated by sector of activity and maturity bands Sector31/12/ 2021 12/31/2020 Due after 15 daysDue 1, 910, 807 67, 059 22, 854 1, 467, 141 63, 294 5, 505 12, 804                                 -                                 -                    118, 709                     67, 059                     15, 998                        131, 513                         67, 059                    10, 649                    27, 295                    83, 994                            13, 367                           15, 213                         108, 338                                  -                                 - - 5, 324 8, 188 8, 399 85, 387 690, 152 857, 778 134, 885 628, 981 419, 190 1, 706 6, 898 4, 200 2, 558 6, 898 4, 285b) Portfolio composition of credits per level risk Risk levelsPortfolio 2021 2020 65, 639 78, 368Minimum 2021 Additional 2021 Total 2021 - - -Total non-current 633, 128 482, 879Total current 1, 277, 679 984, 262 77, 046 Total portfolio 16, 4 51 255, 167 1, 006, 061 633, 128 1, 910, 807 1, 467, 141Total other credits 611 92, 751 31, 711 295 125, 368 537 Securities and credits receivable (Note 08) - 92, 596 31 , 700 242 124, 538 76, 153 Debtors for the purchase of valuables and goods (Note 08) - 155 9 32 196 1, 390, 095 Guarantees and sureties honored (Note 08) 611 - 2 21 634 356 Total credit operations 15, 840 162, 416 974, 350 632, 833 1, 785, 439 474, 813 Rural and agro-industrial financing - 24, 949 564, 991 42, 464 632, 404 535, 556 Financing 1, 003 45, 373 171, 230 280, 853 498, 459 379, 726Loans and discounted securities 14, 837 92, 094 238, 129 309, 516 654, 576Credit operations and Other credits12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Due from 15 daysOverdue Total portfolio Total portfolioUp to 3 months 3 to 12 monthsAbove 12 monthsa) Composition of the credit portfolio by type of operation and terms: Respecting the principle of prudence, the Cooperative adopted from 2021, percentages of provision higher than those deﬁned in Resolution No. 2. 682/99 of the CMN, taking into account, in addition to legal criteria, the economic situation, the experience of operating in the region and the knowledge it has about its associate base, as well as the fact that it took more risks in granting automated and pre-approved credit during 2021. It is also considered a scenario that brings some uncertainties and challenges, both at a macro level and at a regional, where the economy is highly dependent on the agricultural sector (susceptible to market fluctuations and climate factors). The additional provision was applied to risk levels A, B and C, which now provide 0.99%, 2% and 5% of the outstanding balance, respectively, for greater coverage in terms of quantity of operation. ions and more widespread impact in relation to the agencies' portfolio.56Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR During the year ending on December 31, 2021, renegotiations of credit operations were carried out in the amount of R$ 35,557 (2020 - R$ 55,936). Recoveries of credits written off as losses 4, 201 7, 819 5, 650 Total 108 , 017 195, 537                                                                      162, 418Outros                                                                       184                                                                  232                                                                              200 Subtotal                                                              103, 816                                                          187, 718 156, 768Rural and agro-industrial financing 17, 486 31, 791 34, 656Loans and discounted bonds 51, 292 93, 783 77, 430 Financing 34, 854 61, 912 44, 482f) Result from credit operations: 2nd half of 2021 (Not edited) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020Movement of written-off losses (15,841) (9, 343) Final balance 131, 513 101, 617 Creation of provision 109, 623 112, 588 Reversal of provision (63,886) (73, 442) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Opening balance 101, 617 71, 814e) Changes in the provision for expected losses associated with credit risk Dia pass Central Prepaid expenses 6 - Total non-current 6                                                                                    -Despesas antecipadas                                                                     77                                                                                 47 Total circulante                                                                  946                                                                              954Material em esto que 786                                                                                    -Ativos não ﬁnanceiros man tidos para ve nda - recebidos                                                                     83                                                                              907 Imóveis                                                                     83                                                                              907Os adiantamentos para Confederação Sicredi refer to the anticipation of values, which is making investments in structures and technology platforms, through the acquisition of goods (furniture, equipment, software, installations, etc.) and expenditure on specific projects (applications, products, etc.). Upon completion, they will be passed on to the Cooperatives. a) Other values ​​and assets 12/31/2021 12/31/2020Total non-current 6 - Total                                                               8, 471                                                                           5, 346Outros valores e bens                                                                       6                                                                                    -Total circulante                                                               8, 465                                                                           5, 346Valores em análise pela SFG                                                                     21                                                                                 18 Outros                                                                  110                                                                              523Cotas de consórcio                                                                     23 125 Pendências a regularizar                                                               1, 206                                                                           1, 832                                                                              257                                                                  503Impostos e contri buiç ões a co mpensar                                                                  614 86Adiantamentos para pagamentos de no ssa conta                                                               3, 953                                                                              395 Adiantamentos para Confederação Sicredi                                                                  899                                                                              939Outros valores e bens                                                                  946 954 Advances and salary advances 190 217 Securities and credits receivable refer to amounts receivable from credit card transactions. NOTE 09– OTHER ASSETS Miscellaneous credits, classified in the group of other assets, are composed as follows: 12/31/2021 12/31/2020Total current 134, 154 81, 759 Total non-current 1, 076 1, 109 Debtors for guarantee deposits (Note 16) 781 766 Total 135, 230 82, 868 Guarantees and sureties honored (Note 07) 634 356 Credit card transactions 6, 478 1, 044 Debtors for purchasing valuables and goods (Note 07) 196 537 Securities and credits receivable (Note 07) 124, 538 76, 153 Income receivable 2, 603 4, 012NOTE 08– OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS Miscellaneous credits, classified in the group of other financial assets, are composed as follows: 12/31/2021 12/31/202057 Accountability Total Total 492, 922 382, ​​351Inter-financial transfers 492, 916 382, 350 Receipts and payments to be settled 6 1 33, 139 45, 846 22, 048 NOTE 13 – INTER-FINANCIAL RELATIONS 12/31/2021 12/31/2020Contribution to the Credit Guarantee Fund 1, 544 2, 912 2, 271 Term deposits 30, 102 41, 301 19, 470 Inter ﬁnancial deposits 1, 487 1, 624 301 Advance notice deposits 6 9 6b) Expenses with market funding operations 2nd half of 2021 (Not edited) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020Current total 824, 200 578, 928 Non-current total 1, 196, 808 909, 906Total 780, 164 44, 036 1, 196, 808 2, 021, 008 1, 488, 834Time deposits 1, 436 470 1, 177, 740 1, 179, 646 912, 694Interﬁnancial deposits 11, 219 43, 566 19, 068 73, 853 10, 918Total Total Demand deposits 767, 509 - - 767, 509 565, 222Confederation investments are values ​​transferred from "Advances for Confederation Sicredi" to intangible assets and refer to developments in ftware that is already in use by the Cooperative, being amortized based on the future economic benefits incorporated into the assets when consumed by the entity, through its use. NOTE 12 – DEPOSITS a) Breakdown of deposits by maturity date Deposits 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 No maturity and up to 3 months From 3 to 12 months Over 12 months Investments Confederation 10% 16, 053 (10,729) 5, 324 5, 425Intangible 16,053 (10,729) 5,324 5,425Data processing equipment 20% 9,573 (4,873) 4,700 2,545Communication and security equipment 10% 589 (264) 325 241Furniture and and equipment 10% 8, 408 (3, 396) 5, 012 5, 135Improvements to third-party properties 10% 3, 968 (1, 565) 2, 403 2, 421Facilities 10% 1, 655 (526) 1, 129 938Buildings 4% 13 , 893 (2, 116) 11, 777 4, 616 Land - 14, 043 - 14, 043 10, 043 Property in progress - 21, 871 - 21, 871 8, 570 34, 509 CostAccumulated depreciation/amortizationNet Net Property in use - 74, 000 (12,740) 61, 26020 .856 NOTE 11– USE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Annual depreciation rates %12/31/2021 12/31/2020Investment value 32,864 30,132 1 1 35,334 154, 771 Net income for the year (15,246) 38, 149 33, 761 21, 363 - 1, 182Net worth 2, 111, 744 1, 222, 087 368, 071 334, 310 344, 47110.45% 14.16% Share capital 2, 108, 211 1, 178, 211 161 161 337, 972 147, 2 9820.268. 258 PN Quotas Quotas Quotas Participation percentage 1.56% 2.56% 0.62% 0.62%12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Number of shares/quotas held10,749. 675 ON 9,863. 500 ON 1 1 35, 334, 285 20, 855, 701 22,114. 31 /12/2021 31/12/2020Total                                                            68, 199                                                                        50, 989Sicredi Fundos Garan tidores                                                                       1                                                                                   1Sicredi Par ticipaç ões S.A.                                                            32, 864 30, 132 Other holdings and investments 1 1NOTE 10– INVESTMENTS Recorded at acquisition cost 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Cooperative Central Sicredi Centro Norte 35, 334 20, 85658Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR On December 31, 2021, the C ooperative also had Civil and Tax proceedings, the probability of loss of which is possible, in the estimated amount of R$ 10 and R$ 412 (December 2020 - R$0 and R$124), respectively. The Cooperative has legal deposits in the amount of R$ 781 (December 2020 - R$ 766), recorded under the heading “Other Financial Assets”, which are related to these legal processes. Tax 125                                                  -                                                     -                                                           125 Total não circulante                                                       521                                               93                                                     -                                                           614Cível                                                       396 93                                                     -                                                           489Natureza 31/12/2020 Aumento Provisão Baixa/R eversão de Provisão 31/12/2021Tributária Provável                                                                  125                                                                              125 Total não circulante                                                                  614 521Civil Probable 489 396The Cooperative is a party to legal proceedings which its legal advisors classify as a probable risk of loss, and the estimated values ​​and their respective movements and provisions are shown in the following table, according to the nature of the liabilities: Nature Probability of loss 12/31/2021 12/31/2020The provision for financial guarantees provided refers to co-obligations assumed by the Cooperatives when carrying out their members' operations with the Bank. Third-party resources that are with the cooperative are registered in this account for later transfer, by your order. These are resources relating to agreements with service concessionaires, in accordance with a service provision contract. NOTE 16 – PROVISIONS FOR CIVIL, TAX AND LABOR Circulating total 18, 613 13, 202 Resources in transit from third parties 3, 198 1, 55931/12/2021 12/31/2020 Provision for financial guarantees provided 15, 415 11, 643 Transfer obligations operate at a rate of up to 3.75% p.a. due until 11/01/2023. Internal resources for transfers in the country also represent funding from the National Treasury transferred by B NDES. The contracted operations, observing the characteristics of PESE, have monthly maturities until the year 2023. Such resources are transferred within the same deadlines and funding rates as the program plus the transfer commission. B NDES transfers are provenientes do Banco Sicredi. NOTA 15– OUTROS PASSIVOS FINANCEIROS                                                 786                                    806 Total não circulante                                                  385                                 1, 279Total                                        197                                                   589                                            385                                          1, 171                            2, 085 Current total 382, ​​350 BNDES 197 589 385 1, 171 2, 085 The transfers are presented below: Transfers in the Country 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 No maturity and up to 3 monthsFrom 3 to 12 months Over 12 months Total TotalNOTE 14– OBLIGATIONS FOR TRANSFERSTotal - Other Resources - 7, 654 56, 389 64, 043 63, 495 Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A. - 7, 654 56, 389 64, 043 63, 495 As Obligations for interﬁnancial transfers from rural credit resources operate at a rate of up to 12.75% p.a. with maturities up to 05/31/2031, and the resources are transferred by Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A. Obligations for interﬁnancial transfers from other resources operate at a rate of 124.6% of the C DI with maturities up to 15/ 11/2028. The resources are transferred by Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A., whereas for the resources arising from the population's compulsory increase, the rate charged is 84.5% of the C DI and due on 06/01/2023. Total current 404, 189 326, 313 Total non-current 88, 727 56, 037Total 14, 936 389, 253 88, 727 492, 916Total - Rural Credit Resources 14, 936 381, 599 32, 338 428, 873 318, 855 Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A. 14, 936 381, 599 32, 338 428, 873 318, 855a) Interﬁnancial onlendings 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Without due date and up to 3 monthsFrom 3 to 12months Over 12months Total Total59 Accountability In addition to the allocations mentioned above, the Cooperative also allocated the amounts recovered relating to losses from previous years to the Legal Reserve as deﬁned by the Board of A administration. -45% went to the Legal Reserve, which aims to repair losses and support the development of its activities; - 5% to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund - FATES, intended for and educational activities, providing assistance to cooperative members, their families and employees of the cooperative; On December 31, 2021, the cooperative increased its share capital in the amount of R$ 25,148 (December 2020 – R$ 17,390), R$ 25,591 (December 2020 – R$ 18,430) via payment of results and R$ 7,743 (December 2020 – R$ 6,597) via payment of shares. In the same period there were capital reductions, through the redemption of shares, in the amount of R$8,186 (December 2020 – R$7,637). b) Interest on capital The Cooperative paid interest on capital at the rate of 4.31% in Capital Account, in the amount of R$9,549, calculated in accordance with Complementary Law No. 130/2009, observing the SELIC rate limit. c) Destinations The Cooperative allocated its results in accordance with the bylaws, in the following percentages: Share capital 235, 507 210, 359 Total members 82, 340 67, 600a) Share capital The share capital is divided into shares of unit value and equivalent to R$ 1.00 (one real), each member being entitled to one vote, regardless of the number of its shares, and is composed as follows: 12/31/2021 12/31/2020Current total 169, 247 108, 678 Card transactions refer to the merchant's card and installment plan. Collection and collection of taxes and the like refer to the collection values ​​of IO F, GPS, DAR Fe DAS. NOTE 18 – SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITYCollection and collection of taxes 673 6 Pendências a regularizar                                                                  166                                                                           1, 890Credores diversos                                                               5, 564                                                                           4, 634 Cheques a dministra tivos                                                               1, 001 577Taxes and contributions to be collected 2, 247 2, 388Provision for profit sharing 9, 133 7, 806 Technical, educational and social assistance fund 9, 565 6, 662 Provision for payments to be made 6, 146 4, 306 Capital quotas payable 7, 032 4, 92931/12/2021 12/31/2020 Transactions with credit cards 127, 720 75, 480NOTE 17– OTHER LIABILITIES Income tax and social contribution for year 7 (2, 019) Other additions and exclusions consider the effects of other items provided for in the legislation, such as: donations, constitution and reversal of provisions, equity equivalence results, etc. Considering the possibilities of additions and exclusions provided for in the legislation, it is possible for cooperatives to incur tax losses and a negative CS LL calculation base, which will be controlled and used for subsequent compensation with future results. The effect of the change in the CS LL rate of the rate differential for Cooperatives, in which the Social Contribution rate increased from 15% to 20% as of July 2021 and will return to 15% from January 2022. Other additions and exclusions provided for in legislation 80 292 Surplus resulting from cooperative acts 45, 727 27, 555 Interest on equity paid to associates in year 4, 297 2, 348 Effect of adjustments provided for in legislation: Income tax and social contribution at current rates (47,191) (32, 215) Participation in surplus (8, 935) (7, 633) Profit after profit sharing and before taxation on profit and interest on equity 104, 870 80, 537NOTE 19 – INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Cooperatives are subject to taxation by Income Tax and Social Contribution when they obtain positive results in non-cooperative acts, as shown below: 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Result before taxation on profit and participation 113, 805 88, 17060Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Total 24, 591 43, 372 34, 629Social resources 5, 594 9, 470 7, 772 Trainings 67 114 5Remuneration 13, 832 24, 914 20, 132 Benefits 5, 098 8, 874 6, 720Total 31, 609 62, 242 53, 165 NOTE 22– PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND EXPENSES 2nd half of 2021 (Not edited) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020Advance of receivables 296 627 654 Other services 376 703 548Fees and tariffs 814                                             1, 499                                                      1, 529Proce ssamento da compensação                                               46                                                 120                                                         199 Seguros                                         3, 829                                             7, 818                                                      6, 959Distri buição de pro dutos e banking services 9, 577 20, 432 19, 240Consortia 1, 687 3, 426 3, 809 Agreements 1, 042 2, 056 1, 711 Billing 2, 546 5, 029 4, 438 Cards 11, 396 20, 532 14, 078 Key people in administration 4, 725 4, 246 NOTE 21 – INCOME AND REVENUE FROM THE PROVISION OF SERVICES 2nd half of 2021 (Unaudited) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020c) Remuneration of the key person in the administration Key people in the administration are the who have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the entity's activities, directly or indirectly, including any administrator (executive or other of that entity). The fees for key personnel in Sicredi's administration follow the standard Remuneration policy defined by the System, and its approval is deliberated in the specific forums of each Entity. Below we present the total remuneration of key administration personnel: Remuneration 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Term deposits 3, 149 0.27% 2, 456 Credit operations 18, 901 1.06% 14, 126 Nature of operation 12/31/2021 % in relation to the total 12/31/2020 Demand deposits 1, 241 0.16% 1, 017Other expenditure and operating expenses (Note 25) 15, 578 16, 047 b) Transactions with administrators Transactions with related parties refer to balances of deposits (sight and term) and credit operations maintained at the institution by its administrators (administration directors and advisors), as well as the remuneration received by key administrative personnel. Credit operations and fundraising with related parties were contracted under conditions similar to those practiced with third parties, in force on the dates of the operations. Below we present the operations carried out with administrators: loans and transfers 15, 610 17, 623 Other administrative expenses and expenses (Note 23) 4, 400 3, 138 Expenses Funding operations in the mercado (Nota 12)                                                                                         1, 624                                                                                                301Outros in gressos e receitas operacionais (Nota 24)                                                                                            661                                                                                            1, 160Resultado títulos e valores mob iliários 33, 659 17, 644 Income and revenue from services (Note 21) 20, 900 19, 620 RevenueOther liabilities (Note 17) 120, 799 70, 460 Obligations inter ﬁnancial transfers (Note 13) 492, 916 382, ​​350 Liabilities Inter ﬁnancial deposits (Note 12) 73, 853 10, 918 Intangible assets (Note 11) 5, 324                                                                                            5, 425Outros a tivos (Nota 09)                                                                                            899                                                                                                939 Inves timentos   (Nota 10)                                                                                      68, 199 50, 989 Interﬁnancial relations – Financial centralization (Note 04) 550, 682 459, 530 Other ﬁnancial assets - Income receivable (Note 08) 2, 486 3, 110Inter-financial liquidity applications (Note 05) 76, 661 6, 564 Securities and securities (Note 06) 688, 763 528, 250Asseta) Institutions related The entity carries out transactions with related institutions, such as Banco C ooperativo Sicredi, Central, Asset Administration, Insurance Broker, SicrediPar, Fundação Sicredi, Card Administrator (in December 2020), Confederação Sicredi, Sicredi Fundos Garan tidores, The administrator of Consortiums and investment funds administered by the Bank. Below we present the main operations carried out with related parties, summarized by group accounting: 12/31/2021 12/31/2020NOTE 20– RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS61 Accountability Other administrative expenses 1, 807 2, 529 1, 995 Total 25, 692 44, 354 36, 520 Fees reimbursement 14                                                    29                                                            19 Seguros                                               48                                                    87                                                            82Disp êndios a ssist ência técnica, social e e ducacional                                         1, 297                                             1, 618 1, 609 Fees and miscellaneous fees 561 1, 083 972 Amortization (Confederation Apportionment) 946 1, 793 1, 843 Transport services 1, 231 2, 403 1, 944 Depreciation 1, 612 3, 015 2, 454 Specialized technical services 4, 195 7, 164 4, 198 Surveillance and security services 798                                             1, 604                                                      1, 500Serviços jurídicos                                             316                                                 545                                                         571 Serviços de terceiros                                             927                                             1, 470                                                         920Serviços do sistema ﬁnanceiro                                         1, 938                                             3, 828                                                      3, 175 Assessoria e consultoria                                             112                                                 187                                                            17Propaga nda e publicidade                                             214                                                 465 558 Promoç ões e relaç õespúblicas                                         3, 267                                             5, 272                                                      5, 455Material de expediente                                             459                                                 901                                                         897 Proce ssamento dados                                             980                                             1, 798 1, 342Communication 600 1, 145 1, 037 Maintenance and conservation 1, 194 2, 253 1, 836Water, energy and gas 842 1, 434 Rents , 5182nd semester of 2021 (Not the edited) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 Result before allocations 39, 457 104, 877 78, 518NOTE 26 – NON-RECURENT RESULTOther operating expenses (23) 781 1, 412 Total 20, 168 36, 012                                                   33, 307Juros e comi ssões                                                 1                                                      1                                                              6 Tarifa serviços folha pagamento servidores                                                 6                                                    10                                                            18Operação com cart ões (emi ssão, postage, processing, other) 3, 074 5, 913 4, 250 Operational risk 473 543 834 Provisions for contingent liabilities 60 93 114 Other operational provisions 884 1, 515 1, 159 Loss on the sale of valuables and assets - 9 172 Provisions for financial guarantees provided 6, 314 10, 665 8, 805 Financial administration charges 4 6 7 Transfer to Card administrator - - 180Cooperativa Central Sicredi Centro Norte 1, 349 2, 406 2, 027Contribution Sicredi Guarantee Funds 269 704 1, 979 Contribution Sicredi Confederation 7, 166 12, 253 10, 803 Contributions C ooperativists 76 149 1432nd semester of 2021 (Not audited) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 (Represented) Discounts granted in renegotiation and credit 515 964 1, 398NOTE 25– OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES AND EXPENSESTotal 8, 854 15, 957 16, 537Other operating income 586 1, 029 1, 527Reversal of provisions for liabilities quotas - - 66 Machine rental - Sicredi Cards 791 1, 554 775 Reversal of tax provisions sheet 984 1, 283 1, 171 Reversal of provisions for financial guarantees provided 3, 669 6, 893 7, 809 Reversal of operational provisions 217 2, 007 1, 869 Recovery of debt orgs and expenses 730 967 1, 065Profits on the sale of values ​​and assets 1 6 146Absorption of expenses - FATES 1, 276 1, 618 1, 609 Use of social fund 600 600 500 NOTE 24 – OTHER INCOME AND OPERATING REVENUES 2nd half of 2021 (Not audited) 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 (Represented) - 12, 804 - Additional provision for expected losses associated with credit risk62Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR III- Business Continuity Risk Business Continuity Management (BCM) is the organization's ability to continue delivering products and /or services at a previously deﬁned acceptable level, after interruption incidents. Sicredi has a structure to respond appropriately to recovery, restoration and agreed levels of availability for the most critical processes of the System's centralizing entities, in the event of the occurrence of events that cause the interruption of their services, thus preserving the interests of all parties involved. Through a Business Impact Analysis (BIA), the institution's main business processes are identified as well as the IT services that support these processes and, thus, control strategies are defined. business continuity adopted. They are provided for in Sicredi's Integrated Risk Management Policy and Business Continuity Standard, the basic principles and structure necessary to guarantee the adequate response to recovery, restoration and agreed levels of availability for the most critical processes of entities. The Business Continuity Management system structured in Sicredi includes: The processes for managing capital in the Sicredi System include: • Mechanisms that can enable the identification, assessment and monitoring of relevant risks incurred by the institution, including risks not covered by legal minimum capital requirements; • Capital targets at levels above the minimum legal requirements and that reflect the system's risk appetite, aiming to maintain capital to support the risks incurred and ensure business growth in a sustainable and efficient manner; • Capital Plan for each System Institution, consistent with strategic planning, covering a minimum horizon of three years; • Stress tests and assessment of their impacts on capital; • Periodic management reports on capital adequacy for the board of directors and the board of directors; II- Operational Risk Operational risk is defined as the possibility of losses resulting from external events or failure, insufficiency or inadequacy of internal processes, people or systems. The of definition also includes the legal risk associated with inadequacy or insufficiency in contracts signed by the institution, sanctions due to non-compliance with legal provisions and compensation for damages to third parties resulting from the activities carried out by the institution. Operational risk management is carried out jointly between the Bank, Centrals and Individual Cooperatives. These entities are responsible for complying with internal regulations and external, using systemically established tools, methodologies and processes. Such processes are made up of a set of actions that aim to maintain the risks to which each institution is exposed at adequate levels. These are: • Internal standards containing rules, roles and responsibilities regarding operational risk management disseminated to the institution's staff; • Identification, assessment, treatment and monitoring of operational risks; • Storage, monitoring and investigation of operational losses, aiming to maintain them at levels considered acceptable by the institution; • Periodic and structured reports on relevant operational risk and internal control topics to governance forums; • Implementation and maintenance of training programs on the culture of risks and controls in the Institution; • Periodic stress tests for operational risk scenarios; • Procedures aimed at ensuring security continuity of the institution's activities and limit losses arising from the interruption of critical business processes, including impact analyzes and periodic tests of continuity plans. Furthermore, a set of procedures has been implemented to assess, manage and monitor the operational risk arising from outsourced services relevant to the regular functioning of the institution. NOTE 28 – RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Sicredi System considers the priority risk management in the conduct of its activities and business, adopting practices in absolute accordance with the precepts of the Basel Accords. In this way, it has specialized areas for managing these risks, centralized at Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A. Among the main risks managed by the institution, the Capital Management Structure, Operational Risk, continuity of business, Market, Rate Variations Interest, Liquidity, Credit, Socio-Environmental, Compliance Risk and Information Security Risk, the main aspects of which are presented below: I - Capital Management Structure For the purposes of current legislation, the Capital Management as the continuous process of: • Monitoring and controlling the capital maintained by the Institution; • Assessment of the need for capital to face the risks to which the Institution is subject; • Planning goals and capital needs, considering the strategic objectives of the Institution. The capital management of Sicredi System institutions is centralized at Banco C ooperativo Sicredi, through a structure compatible with the nature of the operations, the complexity of the products and the dimension of the System's risk exposure. The centralized structure is responsible for establishing the processes, policies and systems that support the System's institutions in managing the capital.Total 446, 029, 428, 364 The guarantees provided include operations with resources received from financial institutions and passed on to members via Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A., in which the C ooperative is an intermediary and joint guarantor by virtue of a contract signed between the parties. The values ​​are mostly made up of programs of Finame and B NDES. Beneficiaries of guarantees provided 446, 012 428, 335 Coobligations in credit assignments 17 29NOTE 27– COOBLIGATIONS IN GUARANTEES PROVIDED Guarantees provided by the Cooperative in the form of a guarantee, ﬁnance or other obligations are as follows: 12/31/2021 12/31/2020 The processes and policies for capital management are established following the minimum criteria of current regulations, in line with best practices market ethics, and approved by the competent authorities of each institution of the System.63 Accountability Market risk is defined as the possibility of losses resulting from fluctuations in the market values ​​of positions held by a ﬁnancial institution. This definition includes operations subject to the risks of exchange rate variation, interest rates, share prices and commodity prices (commodities). • Business Continuity Management Standard; • Business impact analysis - BIAs; • Business and IT disaster recovery strategies; • Operational and IT continuity plans. Finally, Sicredi makes available to all its agencies a model of a business continuity manual activities of agencies, which enables the preparation of a customized document, in order to meet the main scenarios of interruption of activities”. IV - Market Risk Local areas and bodies are responsible for executing credit risk management, observing systemically pre-established policies and limits. VIII- Socio-environmental Risk Socio-environmental risk is deﬁned as the possibility of losses to financial institutions resulting from of social, environmental and climate damage. Furthermore, it is indirectly involved with a series of other risks, which can generate both financial, legal and reputational impacts. At Sicredi, management is carried out by a structureThe processes and policies for managing liquidity risk are established following the criteria of current regulations, aligned with the best market practices, and approved by the competent authorities of each institution of the System. The processes for managing the Sicredi System's liquidity risk include: • Definition of processes to identify, evaluate, monitor and control exposure to liquidity risk over different time horizons; • The establishment of screening and reporting processes for compliance with liquidity risk appetite and at levels considered acceptable by the institution; • Deﬁnition of fundraising strategies that provide adequate diversiﬁcation of sources of resources and due dates; • Definition of a liquidity contingency plan, regularly updated, that establishes responsibilities and procedures to face liquidity stress situations; • Periodic carrying out stress tests with short and long-term scenarios. VII- Credit Risk Credit risk management consists of the process of identiﬁcation, measurement, control and mitigation of risks arising from credit operations carried out by institutions. financial securities. At Sicredi, Credit Risk management is carried out by a centralized structure and by local areas and bodies. Banco C ooperativo Sicredi is responsible for the set of policies, strategies and methodologies aimed at controlling and managing exposure to credit risk of the companies that make up the System, with the following main duties: being responsible for the policies corporate credit risk management; develop and propose credit risk classification methodologies, including through quantitative models; assess and control capital requirements to cover assumed credit risk; and carry out constant monitoring of exposures subject to credit risk of all Sicredi companies. The processes for managing the I RRBB risk of the Sicredi System include: • Procedures designed to measure, monitor and maintain exposure to risk of I RRBB in levels considered acceptable by the Institution; • Processes designed to monitor and report adherence to the Institution's I RRBB risk appetite in relation to its capital; • Deﬁnition of the I RR BBa risk methodologies to be applied; • Systems to perform the calculation and measure risks, considering the complexity of the products and the extent of exposure to I RRBB risk of the System's institutions. VI - Liquidity Risk Understanding Liquidity Risk is essential for the sustainability of institutions operating in the financial and capital markets and is associated with the institution's ability to finance commitments acquired at reasonable market prices and carry out its business plans with stable sources of financing. For this purpose, liquidity risk is defined as: • The possibility of the institution not being able to efficiently honor its expected and unexpected, current and future obligations, including those arising from binding of guarantees, without affecting its daily operations and without incurring significant losses; and • The possibility that the institution will not be able to negotiate a position at market price, due to its large size in relation to the volume normally transacted or due to some discontinuity in the market. Liquidity risk management of Sicredi System institutions is centralized at Banco C ooperativo Sicredi, through a structure compatible with the nature of the operations. tions, the complexity of the products and the extent of the System's risk exposure. The centralized structure is responsible for establishing the processes, policies and systems that support System entities in managing liquidity risk. Market risk management of Sicredi System institutions is centralized at Banco C ooperativo Sicredi , through a structure compatible with the nature of the operations, the complexity of the products and the size of the risk exposure of the system. The centralized structure is responsible for establishing the processes, policies and systems that support the System's institutions in managing market risk. The processes and policies for managing market risk are established following the minimum criteria of current regulations, aligned with the best market practices, and approved by the competent authorities of each institution in the System. The processes for managing the market risk of the Sicredi System include: • Clear rules for classifying the trading portfolio that guarantee the correct treatment of operations; • Procedures designed to measure, monitor and maintain exposure to market risk at levels considered acceptable by the Institution; • Processes designed to monitor and report adherence to the Institution's market risk appetite in relation to its capital; • Deﬁnition of the market risk methodologies to be applied; • Systems for perform the calculation and measure the risks, considering the complexity of the products and the size of the exposure to market risk of the System's institutions. V - Risk of Variation in Interest Rates in Instruments Classified in the Banking Portfolio (I RRBB) IRRBB is the risk, current or prospective, of the impact of adverse movements in interest rates on the results or economic value of the institution , resulting from the instruments classiﬁed in the banking book. The management of I RRBB risk of Sicredi System institutions is centralized at Banco C ooperativo Sicredi, through a structure compatible with the nature of the operations, the complexity of the products and the dimension of the System's risk exposure. The centralized structure is responsible for establishing the processes, policies and systems that support the System's institutions in managing I RRBB risk. To measure and control this risk at Sicredi, we use the economic value (EVE) and financial intermediation result (NII). The Sicredi System defines the rules for calculating the risk of variation in the interest rate of operations in line with market practices and the requirements of current regulations.64Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Property Index ilization (Imob / PR) 10.86% 7.16% Capital Margin consists of the institution's excess capital over the minimum regulatory requirements and additional capital main. Basel Index (PR / RWA) 22.27% 25.09% Property Situation (Imob) 61, 261 34, 510 Bank Portfolio Interest Rate Risk 1, 071 745 Capital Margin 309, 848 303, 671 Risk-Weighted Assets (RWA) 2, 533, 095 1, 921, 546 Prudential Adjustments (5, 324) (5, 425) Accumulated Profits 45, 209 34, 492 Share capital 235, 507 210, 359 Capital reserves 288, 836 242, 734Level I (NI) 564, 228 482, 160 Main capital - CP 564, 228 482, 160 Reference Equity (PR) 564, 228 482, 160 The description of the complete structure and risk and capital management process can be accessed through the website www.sicredi .co m.br, no path: About us > Reports > Risk Management > Systemic Publications > Risk Management Pillar 3 - Systemic. The Social and Environmental Risk Management Policy and the Sustainability Report, documents with details and numbers of the processes on the topic, can also be accessed through the website www.sicredi.co m.br, on cami nho: About us > Sustainability > Policies and Reports. NOTE 29 – BASEL AND IMMOBILIZATION INDICES Financial institutions and other institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil must permanently maintain the value of Reference Equity (PR), calculated in accordance with CMN Resolutions No. 3. 444/07 and No. 3. 490/07 until September 2013 and by CMN Resolution No. 4. 192/13 as of October 2013, compatible with the risks of its activities, with the calculation of limits being presented below: Operational limits 12/31/2021 31/ 12/2020Processes for managing compliance risk include: •Identifying actions and/or processes associated with the main risks, which need to be reviewed, updated or implemented, seeking the effectiveness of the Compliance Program as a whole; X - Information Security Risk The risk of information security is defined as the risk related to the probability of exploiting a vulnerability, considering the threats linked, and the IMPACTO in the confidence, integrity or availability of information. Cybersecurity or cybersecurity risks are part of the context of information security risks. At Sicredi, information security risk management is carried out jointly with Banks, Centrals and Individual Cooperatives, which are responsible for complying with internal and external regulations, relying on tools and methodologies systems that can be complemented by local actions. The processes and actions aimed at security information aims to maintain risks at acceptable levels, including the use of adequate and effective controls, taking into account costs, technology and business objectives. XI - Additional Informationcentralized and by local areas and bodies. The processes and policies for managing socio-environmental risk are established following the criteria of current regulations, aligned with the best market practices, and approved by the competent authorities of each institution. system titration. The processes for managing the socio-environmental risk of the Sicredi system include: IX - Compliance risk Compliance risk is defined as the possibility of sanctions, financial losses, reputational damage and other damages resulting from of non-compliance or failure to comply with external regulations (laws and regulations), recommendations from regulatory bodies, self-regulation codes applicable to the internal officials. Compliance risk management within the scope of Sicredi is under the responsibility of the Compliance Superintendence, an integral structure of Banco C ooperativo Sicredi S.A, which, for systemic monitoring, offers support and information , both to the areas of companies in the Administrative Center and to Central and Individual Cooperatives, with regard to the compliance process and compliance risk management. The compliance function is performed in the development and execution of the Compliance Program, structured around the pillars of: (i) Prevention, (ii) Detection and (iii) Correction. The risk assumptions adopted, given their nature, are not part of the scope of an audit of financial statements, consequently they are not examined by our independent auditors. NOTE 30 – INSURANCE CONTRACTED On December 31, 2021, The insurance contracted is considered sufficient by the administration to cover possible claims related to the guarantee of values ​​and assets owned by the Cooperative.65 Accountability Director of Operations Accountant 627. 040. 951-91 CRC: RS- 060899/O-8 CPF:694. 157. 650-20Marcio Luis Welter Schoninger Eduardo Netto Sar ubbiMarcio Luiz de Abreu Executive Director CPF:004. 967. 879-50NOTE 31– OTHER INFORMATION We remain attentive to the health standards and recommendations of the Ministry of Health and other competent bodies to face the new Coronavirus pandemic (COVID 19) in the country throughout the period. As a cooperative ﬁnancial institution, our business model makes it possible to closely monitor the reality of members and the regions where we are present, providing opportunities to expand the offer of ﬁnancial solutions suited to their needs. ssities of each person in facing the crisis and maintaining business. To provide support to entrepreneurs, we offer our associates the Viab Emergency Renegotiation Line ilized by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development - B NDES, which allowed the renegotiation of installments without changing the original maturity of the operation and exceptionally in cases of operations with post-fixed rate (TLP) the possibility of extending the final term . Our electronic means of service (automatic teller machines, internet banking, applications) continue to support many of the demands, they are complete channels that allow the majority of operations to be carried out. reducing the need to go to branches. We also continue to increase service possibilities via WhatsApp, streamlining many requests. In addition, we put into practice our mission of contributing to improving the quality of life of associates and society also through initiatives such as I Cooperate with the Local Economy, boosting the strength of cooperation as a driver for the continuity of economic activity in the country.66Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Administrators and Members of the Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR Sorriso / MT Opinion We examined the financial statements of the Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR (“Cooperative”), which comprises the balance sheet as of December 3, 2021 and the respective statements of surpluses or losses, the comprehensive result, changes in net equity and cash flows for the year ending on that date, as well as the corresponding explanatory notes, including the summary of the main policies accounting s. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above adequately present, in all relevant aspects, the equity and financial position of the Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative Sorr iso - Si credi Celeiro MT/RR on December 31, 2021, the performance of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to authorized institutions operating by the Central Bank of Brazil (B ACEN). Basis for opinion Our audit was conducted in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards. Our responsibilities, in accordance with such standards, are described in section below, entitled “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of financial statements”. We are independent in relation to the Cooperative, in accordance with the relevant ethical principles set out in the Accountant's Professional Code of Ethics and the professional standards issued by the Federal Accounting Council, we comply with other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these standards. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to substantiate our opinion. Emphasis - Representation of corresponding values ​​We draw attention to explanatory note no. 2, to the financial statements, which describes the restatements made regarding the corresponding values ​​for the year ended December 31 2020, related to the reclassifications of: (i) balances of investments without investment funds to cash and cash equivalents, depending on their immediate convertibility diata, (ii) the balances of inflows from intercooperative deposits for revenue from financial intermediation, as a result of the nature of the operations, and (iii) the balances of non-operational results for the groups of other operating income and income and other operating expenditure and expenses, due to the nature of the operations. In this context, the corresponding values ​​referring to the year ended December 31, 2020, presented for the purposes of comparison, were adjusted and are being re-presented with what was foreseen in NBC TG23, or C PC 23 - Accounting Policies, Estimate Changes and Error Rectification. Our opinion contains no reservations related to this matter.67 Accountability Other information that accompanies the financial statements and the auditor's report Cooperativa's management is responsible for these other information that comprises the Administration Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Management Report and we do not express any form of audit conclusion on this report. In connection with the audit of financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Management Report and, in doing so, consider whether that report is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit or, in otherwise, it appears to be materially distorted. If, based on the work carried out, we conclude that there is a material distortion and in the Management Report we are required to communicate this fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Board and governance responsibilities for financial statements The board is responsible for the preparation and adequate presentation of financial statements in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil applicable to institutions authorized to operate by the Central Bank of Brazil - Bacen and by the internal controls that it determined as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements free from relevant distortion, regardless of whether caused by due to fraud or error. When preparing the financial statements, the board of directors is responsible for assessing the Cooperative's ability to continue operating, disclosing, when applicable, matters related to its operational continuity and the use of this accounting basis in the preparation of financial statements unless the board of directors intends to liquidate the Cooperative or cease its operations, or has no there is a realistic alternative to avoid the closure of operations. Those responsible for the governance of the Cooperative are those responsible for supervising the process of preparing the financial statements. Answer auditor skills for auditing financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, regardless of whether they are used for fraud or error , and issue an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable security is a high level of security, but not a guarantee that the audit is carried out in accordance with Brazilian and international standards. The auditor always detects any existing relevant distortions. Distortions may result from fraud or error and are considered relevant when, individually or together, they can influence, within a reasonable perspective, the economic decisions of users taken based on the results woundsfinancial statements. As part of the audit carried out, in accordance with Brazilian and international auditing standards, we exercise judgment We maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. In addition:68Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR We identify and assess the risks of material distortion in financial statements, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error, we plan and execute audit procedures in response to such risks, as well as obtaining appropriate and sufficient audit evidence to support our opinion. The risk of not detecting material misstatement resulting from fraud is greater than that arising from error, as fraud may involve the act of circumventing internal controls, collusion, forgery, mission or intentional false representations. We obtained an understanding of the internal controls relevant to the audit in order to plan audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of Cooper's internal controls active. We evaluate the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and respective disclosures made by the board. We concluded on the appropriateness of the use, by the board, of the operational continuity accounting basis and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether there is relevant uncertainty in relation to events or conditions that could raise doubts. significant in relation to operational continuity capacity Cooperative. If we conclude that there is material uncertainty, we should draw attention in our audit report to the respective disclosures in the financial statements or include a change in our opinion if the disclosures are inappropriate to the. Our conclusions are based on audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may cause Cooperativa to no longer continue as a going concern. operational. We evaluate the general presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including disclosures and whether the financial statements represent the corresponding transactions and events in a manner compatible with the objective of fair presentation. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other things, the scope and timing of planned audit engagements and significant audit findings, including There are significant deficiencies in internal controls that may have been identified during our work. Porto Alegre, March 10, 2022 ERN ST & YOUNG Independent Auditors S.S. CRC – 2SP01 5199/F-7 Améric o F.Ferreira Neto Accountant CRC-1SP192 685/O-969 Accountability Neri Armindo Rieger Rodrigo Annoni P azeto Counselor CounselorMatilde Fatima Jordan Damian ConselheiraSorris o / Mato Grosso, March 10, 2022. As members of the Board Supervisor of the Sorriso Credit, Savings and Investment Cooperative - Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR and in the exercise of legal and statutory duties, we examine the Management Report and the Financial Statements comprising: Balance Sheet, Statement of Surplus or Losses, Statement of Changes in Net Equity, Statement of Cash Flows, Explanatory Notes and other statements, and the respective audit report on the financial statements, These documents relate to the year ending December 31, 2021. According to the Governance policies adopted by the Cooperative and based on our examinations and the audit report of the independent auditors, issued by Ernst & Yo ung Auditores Independent S.S., we are in favor of approving the aforementioned demonstrations. Sincerely, OPINION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL How to Connect with People72Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR YOUTUBE Contents and information about the cooperative also on this channel. CLOSER TO YOU! www.youtube.com/channel/sicrediceleiromtrrVarious content, news, information for you, your company and agribusiness. https://www.sicredi.com.br/celeiro-mtrr73 How to connect with us74Annual Report 2021 Sicredi Celeiro MT/RR