Think global, act localSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022Introduction Introduces the content and objectives of the Report Message from leadership .............................. .................... 04 About the report .......................... ............................................. 08 Chapter 1: Sicredi Presents our business, the year's highlights, our governance and our sustainability strategy Sicredi .................................................... ............................. 12 120 years of history ............. ............................................. 14 Highlights 2022 ................................................. ................... 18 Awards and recognition ........................... .................. 20 Our cooperative business model ................. 22 Our business model .... ............................................. 24 National presence .................................................... ............... 26 Our solutions ................................ .................................... 28 Governance and Sustainability Strategy . 30 Governance structure .............................................. ...... 30 Relationship with stakeholders ................................ 39 Inspirational 2030 ..... .................................................... .......... 40 Sustainability Strategy ....................................... 42 Financial performance ........ ....................................... 56 Market context .... .................................................... ... 56 Performance ............................................. ............................. 57Chapter 2: Relationships and Cooperativism Demonstrates how our cooperative business model brings a positive impact. Strengthen our governance model............ 60 Member participation ........................................... 60 Core coordinators ... ............................................. 63 Ethics and combating corruption ............................................... 64 Cybersecurity .. .................................................... ..... 72 Spreading cooperativism and sustainability .. 75 Institutional visit program ............................... 75 Crescer Program .............................................. .................. 76 Training in cooperativism .................................. 78 Training in sustainability ......... ..................... 79 Promote inclusion and diversity .................... .. 80 Sustainability Guidelines for Inclusion, Diversity and Equity ................................................ 80 Committee Inclusion, Diversity and Equity .......... 81 Women's Committee ................................ ........................................ 82 Youth Committee .................................................... .......................... 83 Channel accessibility .......................... ........................... 87Chapter 3: Responsible solutions Shows how we generate value through our products, services, internal processes and sustainable operations . Promote financial education ............................... 90 Cooperation at Ponta do Lápis ......... .............................. 90 ENEF Week .................................................... ..................... 94 Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact. 97 Relationship with associates ................................... 97 Digital Evolution ........ .................................................... ......... 101 Open finance ........................................ .................................. 103 Our financial solutions .............................................. 104 Sicredi platform model ... .............................. 117 Green economy ................. .................................................... 119 Sustainable finance ............................................... ....... 122 Ensuring integrated risk management ................ 124 Risk management ................ .................................................... 124 Social, environmental and climate risk .............................. 126 Working with suppliers and partners with sustainable management ........... .................................................... ............. 132 Engaging sustainable suppliers .................... 132 Promoting eco-efficient management ...... .................. 133 Eco-efficiency program ............................ ................. 134 Emissions Management and Climate Change ........ 135Chapter 4: Local development Addresses our positive impact on society and in the communities where we are present. Promote the local economy ....................................... 142 Demonstration of Added Value (DVA ) ............ 144 Savings generated .................................. .............................. 144 Local suppliers ................. ....................................... 145 Promote financial inclusion ... ........................... 146 Financial inclusion .................................................... ............ 146 Promote people development ........ 150 Employee development .................... .... 150 Employee satisfaction ....................................... 160 Contribute to the development of communities .............................................. ............................................... 163 Social Fund ... .................................................... ..................... 163 Education programs ............................................... .. 172 Chapter 5: Annexes Provides information that complements the previous chapters. Annex of Indicators ............................................... ....... 180 GRI Content Summary ...................................... ...... 183 Summary of SASB Indicators .................................... 200 GRSAC Opportunities .................................................... 201 SDG Map .................................................... .................... 202 Assurance Report .......................... ................... 204 Credits .......................... .................................................... ... 207 Summary 2 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022Message from Leadership GRI 2-22 It is with great satisfaction that we publish our 2022 Sustainability Report, the year in which we celebrate 120 years of credit cooperatives in Brazil. After After so many decades of incessant work, we continue to grow and prepare for the future, based on the cooperative ideals of our founders and generating value for members and their communities. With a sense of historical continuity, this report is an assessment of our trajectory and the main actions carried out in 2022. Aiming to always strengthen the principles of cooperativism, the year was marked by important changes in the management of the System, focused on our governance, continuing the excellent work of the teams and providing the best experience for our associates. Since March 2022, we have adopted the model of exclusive presidency of the Board of Directors. Still within the scope of the Council, we elected the Independent Director, Andiara Petterle, the first woman to occupy this position, reinforcing our commitment to expanding diversity in senior leadership positions. We also continue with the senior leadership succession plan, electing a new CEO of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and Confederação Sicredi. From a regulatory point of view, we maintained our strong commitment to integrity and solidity throughout our operations. Seeking to always be ahead of the best governance and management practices and aligned with regulatory movements in the financial sector, we updated the following internal policies: the Sustainability Policy and the Social, Environmental and Climate Risk Policy. We end the year with a important milestone in our history: we registered the arrival of more than 1 million new members, who believe in our purpose and business model. This achievement is the result of all the work carried out by our Cooperatives, Centrals and Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). We have consolidated ourselves as the second largest agribusiness financing institution, allocating R$53.8 billion in financing for the sector. We thus reinforce our commitment to the development of one of the economic activities of greatest relevance to the country's growth and development. At the same time, we continue to support Brazilian Small and Medium-sized Companies (SMEs), which contribute so much to the economy and the generation of jobs and income in the country. Through Pronampe, we allocated R$2.8 billion in financing for the sector, providing security for SMEs to undertake. We also continue to work towards the digital evolution of our business, in line with changes in company behavior. society, trends in the global economy and mainly the needs of our associates, adopting an approach that solidifies our relationship strategy for the future. We have significantly advanced our digital association journey, with the aim of bringing cooperativism to more people and delivering a simple and close experience to our members, in a way connected to local strategies. We highlight the launch of the Sicredi marketplace, developed to expand presence in the life cycle and consumption of members, while strengthening the local economy. We also began offering direct access to the capital markets with the launch of our variable income operation. Through it, members can trade shares, real estate funds, ETFs and BDRs on the spot market through Home Broker Sicredi, in addition to receiving digital support via WhatsApp. Just as we continually invest in expanding and qualifying the portfolio of digital solutions, we continue to expand the physical service network. With our arrival in the state of Roraima, in April, we provided the opportunity to disseminate the concepts of cooperativism to a new region and began to operate in all federative units in Brazil. We currently have more than 2,400 branches in the country, with more than 270 being opened in 2022, representing an increase of 11.4% in our structure. In more than 200 cities, we are the only financial institution physically present, bringing financial inclusion to the region's population. We also started building our public sustainability commitments, reinforcing our maturity and commitment to sustainable development. 4 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022INTRODUCTIONCésar Bochi Chief Executive Officer of Banco Cooperativo SicrediFernando Dall’Agnese Chairman of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar In this sense, we are members of the Pact Global and we are committed to contributing to the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals, which support our sustainability strategy. In 2022, we underwent an assessment by Morningstar Sustainalytics, which classified Sicredi as having “Low Risk” in ESG themes, which positions us as a cooperative financial institution among the top 20 in the ranking of Diversified Banks in the world, in environmental aspects, social and governance. Still focusing on sustainability, we were pioneers in launching the first Sustainable Financial Bill (LFS) in the Brazilian market, raising R$780 million in resources converted into credit for projects aligned with sustainability. In the investment sector, our Asset considers sustainability transversally in its strategy and management, offering members investment options aligned with ESG criteria. Through our initiatives and programs, we bring a positive impact to the communities where we operate. Throughout the year, more than half a million children and adolescents participated in the A União Faz a Vida Program, based on its own teaching methodology, which values ​​the knowledge obtained inside and outside of school. With the purpose of “cooperating for a sustainable financial life”, our Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis was nominated and elected by popular vote as the best Education Initiative Finance in the 2022 Banking Transformation Award, ranking carried out by Cantarino Brasileiro. With our eyes on our internal teams, we are proud to provide a healthy environment for more than 38 thousand employees throughout Brazil. We were certified as an excellent place to work, having stood out among the best companies to work for in the “Financial Institutions – Credit Unions” category according to Great Place to Work (GPTW). In line with the main debates in society, we created the Inclusion, Diversity and Equity Committees, aiming to strengthen plurality throughout the System, in addition to directing our initiatives. We reached 120 years with pride in our trajectory and with an eye toward the future. In 2022, we began the construction of the new Strategic Cycle, which will guide our operations until 2025. This construction, carried out with systemic participation, aims to define strategies for generating value, with ESG at the heart of the business, strengthening our cooperative essence. We end the year inspired to continue generating a positive impact on society. We feel challenged and excited to continue bringing credit unions to more people, promoting new local economies and generating socio-environmental development for communities. 6 7 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION Welcome to Sicredi’s 2022 Sustainability Report. Throughout this document, we present how we generate value through the cooperative business model, considering the ESG (environmental, social and governance) aspects that are part of our Sustainability Strategy. The information reported includes all singular, central and companies based in the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). In preparing this document, we followed the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, a voluntary standard adopted by companies from the most diverse sectors and countries for sustainability reporting. For the first year, we reported the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standard for the financial sector, demonstrating our commitment to transparency with our stakeholders, in addition to market standardization. The scope of the report and the indicators reported were based on our materiality, defined by three sustainability drivers and their twelve focal themes (find out more on page 46). This document covers the period between January 1st and December 31st, 2022, being approved by the Board of Directors of Sicredi Participações S.A. (SicrediPar), published at a SicrediPar meeting and subjected to an external verification process conducted by an independent audit. GRI 2-3 | 2-5 | 2-14 About the Report How to read this report You can read this report in a linear fashion. However, you can also browse the publication of alternative ways, in line with our Sustainability Strategy and international reporting guidelines. Below we demonstrate how we adopted each of these approaches and point out the pages where more details can be found. Sustainability drivers and focal themes (page 46) The chapters in this publication were organized according to our sustainability drivers. At the opening of each chapter, we present which focal themes will be addressed during the throughout its pages. Sustainability pillars (page 42) Our initiatives are classified according to the Social, Environmental, Economic and Governance pillars. At the opening of each chapter, we describe which pillar the described initiatives are included in. GRI (page 183) We rely on GRI standards to report our sustainability performance. These contents are identified at the end of each paragraph using the acronym GRI. On page 183, we publish a GRI Content Summary that explains the content and the page on which it is reported. SASB (page 199) This year, we will report for the first time on the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standard for the financial sector. At the end of each paragraph, the visual indication of the indicators used will be made using the acronym SASB, and on page 199 we publish a SASB Content Summary, explaining the contents of the indicators and their location in the report. Principles of Global Compact (page 183) We are participants in the Global Compact, an initiative of the United Nations (UN), and this document also seeks to account for our progress in relation to the 10 Universal Principles of the Global Compact. Check on page 183 the correlation of the Global Compact Principles with the GRI content. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (page 202) As members of the Global Compact, we also report our contribution to the SDGs. Therefore, at the opening In each chapter, we point out the objectives impacted by the reported sustainability driver and, on page 47, we present the correlation between our focal themes and the SDGs. Furthermore, throughout the document, we point out the objectives impacted by the initiatives indicated in our Sustainability Framework (learn more on page 52). On page 202, we publish an SDG Map, which shows the relationship between each SDG and our initiatives, with the page where they were published. Sicredi indicators (page 183) We report our own sustainability indicators, selected based on our focal themes. These indicators are identified at the end of each paragraph using the acronym Sicredi -. In the GRI Content Summary, we explain the content of each indicator and indicate the page where it is reported. 8 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022INTRODUCTION Presents our business, the highlights of the year, our governance and our strategy sustainability01 Sicredi SICREDI ___________________________________________________ 12 OUR COOPERATIVE BUSINESS MODEL ________________ 24 GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY _______ 30 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE __________________________________ 56 10We are Sicredi (Cooperative Credit System), the first cooperative financial institution in Brazil. For 120 years, we have generated positive impact for our associates and communities through our financial and non-financial. GRI 2-1 We are physically present in all Brazilian states and the Federal District, with more than 2,400 branches, and we offer more than 300 financial and non-financial products and services. GRI 2-1 We have a systemic operating model, in which each of our more than 100 cooperatives has the autonomy to operate locally, and has the support of the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS) in technology, security and financial solidity. Cooperatives are responsible for implementing systemic strategies taking into account local needs. Each cooperative is affiliated with one of the five regional centers, which are shareholders of the SicrediPar Board of Directors, a holding company that coordinates, together with the cooperatives themselves, the System's strategic decisions. We also have, in our structure, specialized companies that offer security and reliability to members, such as Confederação Sicredi, Sicredi Fundo Guarantors, Fundação Sicredi, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and its controlled companies — the Asset Administrator, the Consortium Administrator and the Insurance Broker —, located in Porto Alegre (RS), at the Sicredi Administrative Center. GRI 2-1OUR SYSTEM IN NUMBERS More than 6.4 million members Net result of R$5.9 billion More than 2.4 thousand service points 105 cooperatives 5 centers More than 38 thousand employees More than 300 financial and non-financial solutions financial assets R$ 263.5 billion in assets R$ 30.3 billion in net equity R$ 153.9 billion in total deposits R$ 160.6 billion in credit portfolio balanceO Sicredi Who We Are 12 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022THE SICREDI120 years of history In 2022, Sicredi celebrated 120 years of history in credit cooperatives in Brazil. It has been a long and prosperous journey, which is closely connected with the principles of cooperativism, generating value for members and communities where we are present. It was in 1902 that Father Theodor Amstad and leaders from the community of Nova Petrópolis, in Rio Grande do Sul, formed Caixa de Economia e Empréstimos Amstad, currently Sicredi Pioneira, marking the beginning of credit cooperatives in Brazil. Theodor Amstad was born in Switzerland , in 1851. From a young age, he dedicated himself to community activities in Germany, England and Holland, learning about the importance of cooperative actions for development of local workers. In Nova Petrópolis (RS), the priest joined 20 people from the community, with whom he worked to put this collective vision into practice to build a better future. Together, they started a cooperative enterprise that inspired the creation of many other rural credit banks in the country, in addition to the first central one, bringing together several cooperatives, even in the first decades of the 20th century. The model was taken forward, overcoming the challenges that arose in the Brazilian context, prospered and modernized. From the countryside he arrived in the cities, maintaining, over the decades, the objective of adding income through investments and shared resources, with equal participation and benefits for associates, in the search for a better quality of life for all. “Reaching the brand The 120 years of credit cooperativism in Brazil fills us with pride, as it shows that we are consistently continuing the path that was paved by Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen about 160 years ago, across the ocean, and followed in Brazil by Father Amstad.” Fernando Dall’Agnese, President of the Board of Directors of Sicredi (SicrediPar). “Our principles and values ​​are based on cooperation between people, focusing on the development of regions through the promotion of a virtuous cycle, in which resources continue to circulate in the cooperative’s area of ​​activity.” César Bochi, President Director of the Bank Sicredi Cooperative.THE PIONEERS OF ROCHDALE Modern cooperativism emerged in the 19th century, in England, with a group of workers who sought to improve their lives and collective prosperity, within a context of the advance of the Industrial Revolution in the country. This scenario brought devastating social impacts to the urban population, such as hunger, poverty, long working hours and child labor. Faced with the difficulty they faced in purchasing food and essential items, of quality and at fair prices, in 1844, 28 weavers met and founded the Rochdale Equitable Pioneers Society Limited. Together, they created an alternative that, through cooperation and joint efforts, provided a fairer economic and social model. Each of the members contributed one pound, an initial investment that helped open the doors of a cooperative warehouse, starting a business completely outside the standards of the time, without employees and bosses, where responsibilities and results were divided equally. Rochdale's pioneers marked the history of cooperatives by understanding that values ​​and principles are necessary for an enterprise to grow and maintain its purpose over the years, generating value for everyone involved. 14 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022O SICREDI1. Free and voluntary membership Cooperatives are voluntary organizations, open to everyone able to use its services and willing to accept the responsibilities as members, without gender, social, racial, political or religious discrimination. 2. Democratic management Cooperatives are democratic organizations, controlled by their members, who actively participate in the formulation of their policies and decision-making. Men and women, elected as representatives of the other members, are responsible to them. In first-degree cooperatives, members have equal voting rights (one member, one vote); higher grade cooperatives are also organized democratically.3. Economic participation of members Contributions are made equally to the capital of the cooperatives and control is carried out democratically. Part of this capital is normally common property of the cooperative (called the Reserve Fund). Members can receive, if there are economic and financial conditions to do so, a remuneration on paid-in capital, called interest on share capital. Surpluses are destined for one or more of the following purposes: development of the cooperative, enabling the formation of reserves, partly indivisible; return to members in proportion to their transactions with cooperatives and support for other activities that are approved by members. VIRTUOUS CYCLE OF COOPERATIVISM When exercising our active role as members, acting as owners of the business, we make everyone's financial life more cooperative and prosperous. While some invest and save, others use this amount in the form of credit to realize their dreams, buy, produce and undertake. In this way, money circulates, moves the local economy and becomes the supply of jobs, products and services, income generation and more opportunities.4. Autonomy and independence Cooperatives are autonomous mutual aid organizations. Even when they enter in an operational agreement with other entities, including government entities, they must do so under terms that preserve their democratic control by their partners and maintain their autonomy.5. Education, training and information Education, training and information for members is the most solid way to generate prosperity. Based on this principle, cooperatives promote various education programs in the communities where they are present. Examples of this action are the Cooperatives Program Schoolchildren, the A União Faz a Vida Program, the Crescer and Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, which develop cooperative citizens engaged in the development of their community. 6. Intercooperation Cooperatives work together to strengthen the cooperative movement. Sicredi is a living example of this, built by the union of several cooperatives, which grow together in a win-win model, bringing prosperity to its members and society. 7. Interest by the community Credit cooperatives may be located in regions with low levels of economic and social development, where traditional financial institutions do not see the possibility of profit. The vision of the cooperative institution is not profit, but development. In this way, each product or financial service that members purchase from the cooperative brings a result to the community, generating income, jobs and growth for the region. principles of cooperativism in practice The seven principles of cooperativism, which were born with the Pioneers of Rochdale and which govern cooperatives around the world, have been reformulated over the years to meet the social demands of each era. Its last update was carried out by the International Cooperative Alliance (ACI) in 1995. The principles of cooperativism direct and support us in generating positive impact: 16 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022O SICREDIExpansion • In In 2022, we continued our expansion process with the opening of another 270 branches, demonstrating accelerated growth in the post-pandemic economic recovery scenario. • We gained more than 1.2 million new members, 15% more compared to the previous year. Financial Education • The Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis was nominated and elected by popular vote as the best Financial Education Initiative in Brazil in the Banking Transformation Award 2022.Inclusion and diversity • We elected the first independent advisor to SicrediPar’s Board of Directors. • We created the Inclusion, Diversity and Systemic Equity Committee. Investments • We launched the first Sustainable Public Financial Bill in Brazil, with resources converted into credit for projects aligned with sustainability. • We expanded our investment portfolio with the launch of the Variable Income offer.GPTW • We appear in the ranking of the best companies to work for in the category Sector – Financial Institutions – Great Place to Work (GPTW) Cooperatives. • Our employee confidence index reached 89% in 2022, one percentage point higher compared to 2021. Social investment • We had R$301.3 million in social investment. • More than half a million children and teenagers participated in the A União Faz a Vida Program. Performance • Second largest agribusiness financing institution, allocating R$53.8 billion in financing for the sector. • Growth of 20.6% in the credit portfolio. Highlights 2022 18 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022O SICREDIPraids and Recognition Sicredi's CPR Fácil digital solution won the “2022 Digital Growth Award”, which recognizes solutions that promote financial inclusion, innovation and scalability. The product was developed with simplified and automated concepts and processes, in order to meet the credit needs of members of the agro segment, through Rural Product Certificate (CPR). Sicredi Administrative Center is the most sustainable building in Brazil. Our structure was again certified by LEED, receiving 88 points, the best score in the country for the operation and maintenance typology, winning first place among 12 certified buildings in Brazil in 2022. Our administrative center is also the only one with certification in Rio Grande do Sul in “LEED – operation and maintenance of existing buildings” category. Top 5 annual Central Bank economic projections for the fifth consecutive year. Based on the most consistent economic projections throughout the year and which takes into account a Market Expectations System, Banco Cooperativo Sicredi won second place in the IPCA category for the Annual Medium Term indicator (score 8.3). In terms of Exchange Rate, Sicredi Asset ranked fifth in the Short Term Annual category (score 9.6). 4th position among the best financial institutions of Brazil in the World’s Best Banks 2022 ranking, carried out by Forbes in partnership with Statista, a statistics company. The evaluation involved questions about how financial institutions were able to guarantee a basis of general satisfaction and people's recommendation, based on elements such as trust, terms and conditions in provision, customer service, digital services and financial consultancy. 4th place as the best company to work in the category “Institutions Financial Companies – Credit Unions” by GPTW (Great Place to Work). The calculation is carried out through the Climate Survey applied annually and the analysis of the Book of Practices of each participating company. In 2022, the survey had the participation of 29 thousand employees, who contributed their perception of what it is like to work at the institution, reaching a result (trust index) of 89%. Gold Trophy in the Best Performance Award. We were recognized in the category “Innovation for customer/consumer service – digital service channels and platforms”, with video calling functionality in Libras (Brazilian Sign Language) for Sicredi’s WhatsApp. Banking Transformation Award 2022. Our Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis was nominated and elected by popular vote as the best Financial Education Initiative in Brazil, according to the ranking carried out by Cantarino Brasileiro. We are among the 20 best “Banks Diversified” – of the 400 evaluated globally by the ESG risk classifier Morningstar Sustainalytics. We received a score of 15.9, being considered a company with “Low Risk” and we are considered a company with “Low Risk” of suffering financial impacts arising from ESG factors. Among the issues evaluated, it is worth highlighting our positive performance in the Corporate Governance category, through ESG governance indicators, sustainability policies and fiscal transparency, as well as being members of the UN Global Compact. 8th largest bank in Brazil by total assets, according to the Época Negócios 360º yearbook. We are the 6th largest FI by deposit, totaling almost R$130 billion, and the 8th largest in total assets, with just over R$25 billion, a growth of 22.6%. In relation to net profit, we also achieved 8th place, with R$4.7 billion. 8th position in the “100 Largest Banks” category, in Valor 1000, a yearbook organized by Valor Econômico. Among the highlights, we also ranked 4th as the Most Profitable on Equity among the 20 largest banks, 6th as Largest in Total Deposits and 7th as Largest in Credit Operations. We also ranked 8th in the categories of Largest in Net Equity, Largest in Intermediation Revenue, Largest with Best Operating Results without Equity Income and Largest in Net Profit. We are considered one of the market leaders in Open Innovation and are, for the fourth consecutive year, classified in the 100 Open Startups ranking as one of the TOP Open Corps 2022. In addition to being among the 50 companies selected in the general ranking, we won second place in the award in the “Financial Services” category. We achieved the maximum rating from the Moody's agency . We achieved the highest rating in the Local category, AAA, proving that we have one of the safest and least risky credit profiles evaluated by the risk rating agency. We occupy 7th position among the best fixed income fund managers, in the “Top Asset” ranking, by Investidor Institucional magazine. Sicredi's fixed income funds were in 7th place in the ranking, with R$34.8 billion. We were also in 13th position in the magazine's general ranking, with R$53.8 billion under management. Sicredi Asset is classified as “Strong” by Fitch’s management rating, which measures all aspects related to management activity, using global criteria evaluation. 9th position in the Top General in the 16th edition of the Broadcast Projeções Awards. This is the second consecutive year that we have been recognized in the ranking, which brings together the financial institutions and economic consultancies that most accurately estimated the macroeconomic variables of 2021. 20 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022THE SICREDIMission As a cooperative system, valuing relationships, offering financial solutions to add income and contribute to the improvement quality of life for members and society. Purpose To build a more prosperous society together. Principles of cooperativism • Free and voluntary membership; • Democratic management by members; • Economic participation of members; • Autonomy and independence; • Education, training and information; • Intercooperation; • Interest in the community. Our cooperative business model OUR DIFFERENTIALS GRI 2-22 Values ​​• Unrestricted preservation of the cooperative nature of the business; • Respect for the individuality of the member; • Valuing and developing people; • Preservation of the institution as a System; • Respect for official and internal standards; • Efficiency and transparency in management.Vision To be recognized by society as a cooperative financial institution, committed to the economic and social development of members and communities, with sustainable growth of cooperatives integrated into a solid and effective System. Inspirational 2030 Indicates the aspiration to make Sicredi a leading institution in local and sustainable development. 22 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OUR COOPERATIVE BUSINESS MODELOur business model Business inputs Business model Business investments • R$153.9 billion in total deposits; • R$160.6 billion in the credit portfolio; • R$263.5 billion in assets. Presence in communities • Presence in 1,796 municipalities; • Physical presence in 1,547 cities with less than 100 thousand inhabitants. Members • More than 6.4 million members. Our team • 38,816 employees. Management model • Principles of cooperativism. Purpose: To build a more prosperous society together. Strategy 2020-2023 – Inspirational 2030 Sustainability strategyValue generation Value for the business • More than 300 financial and non-financial solutions; • R$263.5 billion assets; • 5 Centrals and 105 Cooperatives. Value for our team • R$46.8 million spending on employee development and training; • R$4.9 billion paid in salaries and benefits; • 1,137,700 hours of training for employees; • 89% employee satisfaction rate. Value for communities • R$ 1.14 billion paid in taxes; • 217 municipalities in which we are the only financial institution present; • R$40.3 million allocated to the Social Fund; • 513,644 children and adolescents impacted by Education Programs; • 694 municipalities impacted by Education Programs; • More than 20 million people impacted by financial education actions. Value for the environment • R$34.2 billion in Green Economy products; • Neutralization of carbon emissions measured in the 2021 Inventory and projected for 2022; • 574 tons of CO2e avoided by self-generation of renewable energy; • 35 thousand tons of CO2e avoided through the release of resources to finance solar energy. Value for members • More than 2,400 service points; • R$118.9 billion granted in credit; • R$ 1.16 billion distributed as a result. Value for our management model • Governance model recognized worldwide; • Focus on the associate – the business owner; • 440 thousand members participated in the 2022 assemblies. • 439 thousand people participated in the Crescer Program. COOPERATIVISM Our own cooperative business model is a differentiator that generates value for associates and the communities where we are present. NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS Initiatives and programs aimed at expanding our positive impact for associates and communities. FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS We have a broad portfolio of products, services and physical and digital channels to meet the needs of our associates. 24 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OUR COOPERATIVE BUSINESS MODEL*Due to a strategic decision, the center changed its area of performance in the bylaws and in 2023 it was renamed: CENTRAL SICREDI NORDESTE.National presence One of our greatest achievements during 2022 was the arrival of more than 1 million new members of the System. As a result, we ended the year with 6.4 million people, a 15% increase in the membership base compared to the end of 2021. This success is the result of all the work carried out by our cooperatives, centers and CAS. During the year, we continually invested in expansion and qualification of our portfolio In 2022, continuing our expansion project, we reached the state of Roraima, opening branches in the city of Boa Vista.CENTRAL SICREDI SUL/SUDESTE 2020 2,199,438 2021 2,445,485 2022 2,812,410CENTRAL SICREDI CENTRO NORTE 2020 602,628 2021 788,417 2022 1,018,553 Number of members 2020 4,466,750 2021 5,579,161 2022 6,488,112 of digital solutions, at the same time as we expand and qualify our network of physical agencies. With our arrival in the state of Roraima, in April 2022, we began to operate in all federative units in Brazil. In more than 200 cities, we are the only financial institution physically present. We currently have 2,454 branches in the country, 274 of which were opened in 2022. CENTRAL SICREDI BRASIL CENTRAL 2020 342,296 2021 405,115 2022 485,343CENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTE* 2020 169,728 2021 193,686 2022 223,370 CENTRAL SICREDI PR/SP/RJ 2020 1,587,634 2021 1,746,458 2022 1,948,436OUR PRESENCE In 217 municipalities, we are the only financial institution present, promoting local development and financial inclusion for 959,841 thousand inhabitants. 7.9% of our branches are in cities classified as Underserved, Rural, Rising Country or Prosperous Country. Number of members by centers GRI FS13 | SICREDI DL 01| DL09| DL10 | DL11 | DL12 Of the municipalities in which we are present, 86% are cities with up to 100 thousand population. Of the municipalities we are exclusive to, 94% have less than 10 thousand inhabitants. 26 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OUR COOPERATIVE BUSINESS MODELOur solutions For you • Foreign exchange • Credit and Debit Card • Credit (personal, vehicle and real estate) • Consortium • Current Account • Digital Account (Woop Sicredi) • Automatic debit • Investments • HomeBroker ( New) • Payments and receipts • Pix (instant payments) • Savings • Pensions • Insurance • Shopping do Sicredi (New) • Sicredi in the CommunityFor your company • Foreign exchange and foreign trade • Business Cards • Digital Certification • Billing • Consortiums • Current Account • Credit • Credit for investments BNDES • Check custody • Banking domicile • Financing • Payroll • Investments • Card machine • Corporate Pension • Pix (instant payments) • Insurance • Payment and receipt solutions • Shopping do Sicredi (New) • Health and welfare solutions living and food (New) • Sicredi in the CommunityFor agribusiness • Exchange • Credit and Debit Card • Consortiums • Current Account • Credit for investments BNDES • Rural Credit • Financing • Investments • Payments and receipts • Pix (instant payments) • Savings • Insurance • Shopping do Sicredi (Novo)Channels • Agencies • Accredited agent • Sicredi application • Sicredi X application • ATM (own network, Banco 24Horas and Saque e Pague) • Internet Banking • Telephone services • WhatsApp from Sicredi Financial and Non-Financial Solutions 28 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OUR COOPERATIVE BUSINESS MODELThey are linked to cooperatives through capital contributions and have the right to vote on cooperative decisions through core assemblies, with equal weight , regardless of the volume of resources applied. They are the representatives elected by the members. They have the role of taking matters of interest and decisions from the nucleus to the general assemblies of the cooperative. Society of people, are the basis of the System. Their objectives are to encourage the formation of savings, manage resources and grant loans to members, in addition to providing services typical of a financial institution. Main link with members, they are also Sicredi's primary decision-making bodies. Each cooperative has a Board of Directors. They lead the development of credit cooperatives at a regional level, supervising affiliated cooperatives, in addition to supporting their development and expansion. The centers are the controllers of SicrediPar. Each Center has a Board of Directors. Core CoordinatorsAssociadosThis is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the System's strategic decisions. It aims to provide direct and formal participation of credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to the governance structure. The advice Board of Directors meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic topics. Central Sicredi South/Southeast Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ Central Sicredi Brazil Central Central Sicredi North/Northeast Central Sicredi Central NorthCooperative CentersGovernance structureGovernance and Sustainability Strategy Our governance structure is recognized worldwide in the credit cooperative segment. We are organized into a System, structured based on specialization in areas, reducing operational costs, enabling economies of scale and intercooperation and expanding the possibilities of meeting the demands of members. Each entity has specific roles, providing efficiency gains to our strategy, decision making and the development of internal processes. All these entities, together, form Sicredi. GRI 2-9 Consortium Administrator Sicredi Insurance Broker Sicredi Administradora de Bens SicrediSicredi Guarantee Funds (SFG) The purpose of SFG is to contribute to the credibility, development, solvency and solidity of its associates. SFG has a Board of Directors. Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Develops and provides financial products and services, in addition to promoting the System's access to the financial market. It is responsible for the System's centralized risk management structure and the scaled administration of resources. Has as strategic partners Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC. The Bank has a Board of Directors.Confederação Sicredi Provides services in information technology, operations, administrative services, logistics coordination, purchase of goods and management of securities portfolios. The Confederation has a Board of Directors.Fundação Sicredi Its function is to keep the essence of cooperativism alive in Sicredi's culture, through development of the systemic sustainability strategy and educational, social, cultural, environmental and governance programs and initiatives to expand the institution's positive impact. The Sicredi Foundation has a Board of Trustees. Fiscal Council Rabo Partnerships B.V. and IFC SicrediPar Board of Directors CDE – College of Executive Directors Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS)Monitors compliance with the legal and statutory duties of the administration.It is the headquarters of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and its controlled companies, the Foundation, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores and the Confederation. Develops solutions and assists cooperatives in meeting the needs of members.CAS – Sicredi Administrative Center Evaluates, debates and recommends action strategies and systemic positioning in all matters linked or that may be linked to strategic planning and its execution, in addition to deliberating about standards, regulations and other systemic matters within the competence of the Executive Boards. Controlled companiesConfederação Sicredi Banco Cooperativo Sicredi Fundação Sicredi Sicredi Guarantee Funds 30 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYDemocratic decision-making process Our cooperative model has as one of its principles democratic management by members and includes their active participation in decision-making. His involvement in the management of the Business takes place through cooperative assemblies, spaces in which representatives are elected and the direction of the business is decided. In our governance model, SicrediPar's Board of Directors is elected and represents the centers and cooperatives and, therefore, the members, being responsible for deliberating on the System's strategic decisions. SICREDIPAR ADVISORS' ELECTION PROCESS ¹ SicrediPar's General Assembly elects the Boards of Directors and Supervisor. However, the five presidents of the centrals have a guaranteed place on the board and the other five vacancies are for presidents of individual cooperatives, nominated by each of the centrals. In addition, one vacancy is indicated by Rabo Partnerships B.V., another is reserved for an independent advisor and finally, the vacancy of the exclusive President of the Council. five centrals have a Board of DirectorsRepresentatives of the cooperativesBoard of Directors of the centralCenters elect At ordinary general meetings The 105 cooperatives have a Board of DirectorsDelegates (core coordinators)Board of Directors of the cooperativeCooperatives elect based on the vote of the members At the General Assembly of SicrediPar1Representatives of the cooperativesRepresentatives of the centralsCouncil of Administration of SicrediParSicrediPar choose GRI 102-24 Our decision-making process is democratic and provides security, as it is composed of two complementary lines. The first is the strategic line, which seeks to consider the opinions presented by cooperatives, centers and the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). The executive line seeks to carry out activities and implement strategic decisions. This second line is led by the College of Executive Directors (CDE), made up of directors central executives and the president director of Banco Cooperativo Sicredi. The technical areas of the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS) prepare and present proposals, involving the centrals, whenever applicable.CAS The representatives of the centrals submit the proposals to the individual cooperatives to collect votes.Centrals The representatives of the centrals return the votes of their cooperatives affiliated to the SicrediPar CAD. Central After passing through the systemic flow of decision, the deliberative process is concluded, with the necessary records and formalizations.SicrediPar Board of DirectorsSicrediPar's Advisory Committees analyze some topics in greater depth and propose recommendations. The Board of Directors (CAD) of SicrediPar receives the proposals and forwards them to the vote of the individual cooperatives through the representatives of the centrals. Board of Directors of SicrediPar The individual cooperatives analyze the proposals and return the vote to the representative of their respective central.Cooperativas 32 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SicrediPar board of directors Sicredi Participações S.A (SicrediPar) is the holding company that controls Banco Cooperativo Sicredi and coordinates the strategic decisions of the System . The entity aims to provide direct and formal participation of credit cooperatives in corporate management and provide greater transparency to governance structure. The Board of Directors (CAD) meets monthly to discuss and deliberate on strategic and systemic topics. GRI 2-9 SicrediPar's Board of Directors is responsible for defining Sicredi's strategic, economic and financial planning, in addition to defining and monitoring the performance indicators of the entities that make up the System, as well as discussing and deliberating on systemic issues. GRI 2-12 The Board is made up of 13 members, being: the five presidents of the centrals; five presidents of cooperatives; the President of the Boards of the Cooperative Bank, Confederation and Guarantee Funds; a representative appointed by Rabo Partnerships, an external shareholder of Banco Cooperativo and an independent advisor who goes through a selection process and is appointed by the Board itself. GRI 2-10 From 2022 onwards, the Chairman of the Board began to exercise this role exclusively, without overlapping positions. By adopting the exclusive presidency model, we reinforce our governance towards the best sustainability practices in the market and aligned with the new guidelines of the Central Bank (learn more in the box on page 36). GRI 2-11 This year, we had the election of the first independent director on the Sicredipar Board, with the process considering both her technical expertise and gender diversity. After the nominations, the names were taken to the deliberation of the General Meeting of the Holding, for the election. Current members have terms of office until 2024. The election took place during the SicrediPar General Assembly, appointing Andiara Peterle to the position. Furthermore, the representative representative of Central Sicredi South/Southeast was elected. GRI 2-10 With the aim of contributing to a better reading of scenarios and supporting the decision-making process, the advisors began advanced training in governance at the ISE Business School, which has the ESG theme. In addition, they participate in sessions focused on the topic during the quarterly meetings of the Sicredi Foundation Committee, responsible for advising the CAD on issues related to sustainability. GRI 2-17Fernando Dall’Agnese GRI 2-11Chairman of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; President of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi; Coordinator of the Strategy Committee. Márcio PortMember of the Board Administration of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi; President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast; Member of the Strategy Committee, People Committee and Remuneration Committee of the Cooperative Bank. Celso Ronaldo Raguzzoni FigueiraMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Member of the Board of Trustees of Sicredi Foundation; President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Brasil Central; Member of the Strategy Committee, Foundation Committee and Coordinator of the Risk and Compliance Committee. Manfred Alfonso DasenbrockMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi; President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ; Director of WOCCU and WOCCU Foundation (Council World of Credit Unions); Member of the Strategy Committee, Guarantee Funds Committee and Coordinator of the Foundation Committee. João Carlos SpenthofMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi; President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Centro Norte; Member of the Strategy Committee and the Foundation Committee. Wilson Ribeiro de Moraes FilhoMember of Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo, Confederação and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Member of the Board of Trustees of Fundação Sicredi; President of the Board of Directors of Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste; Member of the People Committee, Coordinator of the Guarantee Funds Committee and Member of the Strategy Committee. Jaime BassoMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Alternate member of the Foundation’s Board of Trustees; Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Vale do Piquiri ABCD PR/SP; Member of the People Committee and Risk and Compliance Committee. Eledir Pedro TechioMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Alternate member of the Sicredi Foundation Board of Trustees; Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Ouro Verde MT; Member of the Guarantee Funds Committee and Coordinator of the People Committee; Compensation Committee Coordinator of the Cooperative Bank. Sadi MasieroMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Alternate member of the Sicredi Foundation Board of Trustees; Second Vice-President of the Board of Directors of Centro-Sul MS; Member of the People Committee and Coordinator of the Audit Committee. João Bezerra JúniorMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Alternate member of the Foundation's Board of Trustees Sicredi; Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Evolucion; Member of the Risk and Compliance Committee, Audit Committee and Foundation Committee. Marcos André BalbinotMember of the Board of Directors of SicrediPar, Banco Cooperativo and Sicredi Fundos Garantidores; Alternate member of the Sicredi Foundation Board of Trustees; Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sicredi Serrana RS/ES; Member of the Audit Committee and Foundation Committee. Cornelis BeijerMember of the Board of Administration of SicrediPar and Banco Cooperativo Sicredi; Director of Rabo Partnerships; Member of the Strategy Committee and Risk and Compliance Committee. Andiara PetterleIndependent Advisor to the Board of Directors of SicrediPar and Banco Cooperativo Sicredi; Member of the People Committee.MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF SICREDIPAR (MANDATE 2021 TO 2024) GRI 2-9 34 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYSUPPLEMENTARY LAW No. 196 In August of 2022, Complementary Law No. 196 changed the terms of Complementary Law 130/2009 regarding the National Cooperative Credit System. By determination of the new legislation, it was established that it was impossible for presidents and vice-presidents of the Board of Directors or executive director of cooperative systems to also hold positions of a similar nature in other entities within the same organization. In addition to actively participating in discussions on the bill, we also We anticipated the legal framework by putting into practice, at the beginning of the year, the reorganization of positions, being in compliance when the new regulations were published. Advisory committees The Board of Directors of Sicredi Participações S.A. is advised by permanent committees, which have the function of analyzing certain matters in greater depth and making recommendations to the Board of Directors. GRI 2-9 | 2-12 Strategy Committee: Assists in structuring strategies long-term and in assessments regarding entry into new markets, strategic associations and possible acquisitions, mergers and sales of companies in the System, as well as monitoring our strategic drivers. It meets monthly and reports to the Board of Directors on the topics discussed at the meetings. Foundation Committee: Assists in decisions that encompass policy, implementation and development of the systemic sustainability strategy, in addition to programs and educational, social, cultural, environmental and governance initiatives to expand the institution's positive impact. It meets quarterly and reports to the Board of Directors on the topics discussed at the meetings. People Committee: Supports decisions related to people management policies at the systemic level, as well as other strategic people management matters. The Committee meets regularly four times a year and, extraordinarily, whenever necessary and upon call. Guarantee Funds Committee: Assists in decisions related to the use of resources from the Guarantee Funds intended for corporate use, including recommendations for a technical feasibility study and economic-financial recovery, administrative procedures and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the conditions for access to resources. The Committee meets whenever necessary, reporting to the Board of Directors on the topics discussed at meetings. Risk and Compliance Committee: Supports the formulation, monitoring and control of the policies and methodology we employ related to (legal or internal) credit, market and liquidity, operational, environmental and other risks, in addition to the Risk Appetite Statement , Compliance Policy and Compliance Program. It meets monthly and reports to the Board of Directors on the topics discussed at the meetings. Audit Committee: Assists with decisions regarding the standards and procedures to be adopted by the entities forming part of the System in relation to Internal Audit, External Audit and Cooperative Audit to comply with legislation and our internal regulations, as well as analysis of Internal and External Audit reports. It meets every two months, reporting to the Board of Directors on the topics discussed at the meetings. 36 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITYLeadership remuneration Our remuneration policy aims to reward managers for actions that guarantee the sustainability of the business in the short, medium and long term. This internal rule takes into account the size of the entities and the composition of their assets. GRI 2-19 To determine the remuneration of leaders, we annually carry out a nationwide salary survey, together with an external consultancy, to maintain the competitiveness in the management of people in entities. GRI 2-20 Compensation consultants participate in the process by constructing salary reference tables considering the matching of positions with the salary survey. After these contributions, executive remunerations are approved at the General Meeting. GRI 2-20 We have a People Committee that monitors and participates in this decision-making for executives and other levels. As for Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, we have with a Remuneration Committee that monitors the strategic remuneration process. GRI 2-20 In addition to the fixed remuneration, there is an annual short-term variable portion, linked to the business performance in the period, and a long-term variable portion, aimed at retaining statutory employees, business sustainability, career transition and the succession. The definition of targets and indicators for these variables is carried out by entity and, currently, no entity uses target socio-environmental. GRI 2-19 Councilors of centrals and cooperatives receive attendance cards or a monthly fee approved at the General Assembly of members, also taking into account the size of each entity. Similar rules are used for companies based in Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS), approved by the General Assembly, observing the specific legislation of each company. GRI 2-19 The variable remuneration model for executives is calculated based on multiples salaries defined by positions, short and long term, the latter in the Long Term Retention model (in a membership format per entity). We rely on the clawback rule for the variable remuneration model for CAS executives, which provides for a reduction in the amount to be paid in case specific requirements of the model are not met. GRI 2-19 We currently offer the Private Pension Plan for all employees and statutory employees. In this plan, the contribution can vary from 1% (one percent) to 10% (ten percent) of the monthly remuneration, according to the ceiling established by the entity. The amount is deducted from the payroll or monthly fees. In the same percentage chosen by the employee/statutory employee, there is a counterpart from the company. GRI 2-19Relationship with stakeholders To define our stakeholders and establish how we will engage each one, we carry out an analysis of our strategic, institutional and market relationships, taking into account the business sustainability. GRI 2-29 STAKEHOLDER GROUP METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT / FREQUENCY Governance: Support and participate in the management of the business. Audience: associates, core coordinators, advisors, shareholders.• Assemblies / annual; • Sustainability Report / annual; • NPS survey / monthly; • Corporate citizenship actions / according to the cooperatives’ agenda; • Institutional visits organized by cooperatives to CAS / according to the cooperatives' agenda. Business: Your decisions directly impact our business, whether due to regulations or because your actions have an impact on our operations. Audience: regulatory bodies, government, suppliers, unions.• In-person meetings / without defined frequency; • Sustainability Report / annual; • Official announcements / without defined frequency. Reputation: They build our reputation, generating opinion and impacting our activities and conduct. Audience: employees, community, press and influencers.• Climate Survey / biannual; • Internal communications / frequently; • Satisfaction surveys / without defined frequency; • Assemblies / annual; • Sustainability Report / annual; • Corporate citizenship actions / according to the cooperatives’ agenda; • National Meeting with Journalists / annual; • Relationship actions regarding product and service launches and cooperative dates. Representation: Defend the interests and exercise of cooperatives in the scenario political and economic. Audience: World Council of Credit Unions (Woccu), Brazilian Confederation of Credit Cooperatives (Confebras), International Cooperative Alliance (ACI), ACI Americas, International Association of Cooperative Banks (ICBA), OCB System.• Sustainability Report / annual; • In-person meetings / without defined frequency; • Official announcements / without defined frequency. 38 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND STRATEGY INSPIRATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY 2030 Sicredi's operations are guided by Inspirational Planning 2030, which places positive impact as the focus of our long-term vision, aligning our actions with the principles of cooperativism and sustainable development. PEOPLE Have a humanized and inclusive work culture, with pride in what we do together. DIFFERENTIATION FOR THE MEMBER Provide the best cooperative experience for the member, focusing on their development.PROTAGONISM IN SOCIETY Be a protagonist of local and sustainable development. INNOVABILITY Having the ability to always learn, to innovate and grow with associates and society. ENTREPRENEURIAL MANAGEMENT Being entrepreneurial and dynamic, leading a model of renewed and relevant cooperativism to society. Building together a more prosperous society. STRATEGIC PLANNING 2023 BUILDING TOGETHER A MORE PROSPEROUS SOCIETY Associate's principality Models of platformPeople engagedDevelopment and growthGovernance and succession DIRECTORSIn 2023, we will begin the construction of our new Strategic Cycle, which will guide our operations until 2025. To carry out this work, we are counting on the support of the Boston Consulting Group (BCG), which is a leading global consultancy in strategy. BCG also has a governance and decision-making model that is similar to ours, where partners are part of the board and participate in decisions. The construction of the cycle is estimated to last six months, officially starting in January and expected to be completed at the end of the first half of 2023. The process will have three major stages: • Context and competitive advantages: in which we will address our inspirational vision, internal and external vision; • Strategic options: how the core levers of the business and surrounding areas and possible new businesses will be analyzed and chosen; • Planning the execution: where the execution plan and economic plan will be constructed, considering the choices made throughout the semester. Also during this period, we will support Cooperatives to carry out their planning and local initiatives. Construction of the 2025 Strategic Cycle Business model with the member at the center Inspirational Planning consolidated our purpose: “to build a more prosperous society together”. CUSTOMIZED SYSTEMIC FOCUSED ANCHORED ENABLER Some premises were considered for this construction and, therefore, we will count on several moments of co-creation and collaboration with the entire System (CAS, Centrals and Cooperatives), to build a systemic strategic cycle for Sicredi: From work built by many hands , we hope to review our strategic guidelines, define business and growth strategies, strengthening our competitive differences and our cooperative essence. Throughout this construction we will seek to further reinforce our essence, designing initiatives aligned with our sustainability strategy, which continues to guide our positive impact (learn more on page 42). Furthermore, we are very attentive to market trends, member needs, competitors and impacts on the segment, connecting all of this to our brand positioning and marketing strategies, to continue advancing in the exercise of our purpose, which aims to build a more prosperous society. 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 40 GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYSustainability Strategy We operate in line with the main global concepts relating to Sustainable Development, generating value for our associates, the environment and society. Due to our cooperative nature, since our incorporation we have kept a close eye on the impacts of the business. This concern is materialized in a robust Sustainability Strategy, which incorporates the best management practices on the topic and is based on four pillars: economic, social, environmental and governance. Our Sustainability Policy establishes governance for sustainability, principles and guidelines applicable to all levels and entities of the System, in order to guide decision-making in the conduct of business, activities, processes and in the relationship with our stakeholders. In 2022, the The policy underwent updates in compliance with CMN resolution No. 4,945, of September 15, 2021, which came into force on 12/01/2022. GRI 2-23During 2022, we delivered various materials that reinforce employees' and associates' awareness of sustainability and ESG, presenting our policies, strategy and positioning. (learn more on page 44). Sustainability Governance Sustainability is a transversal theme, which is managed by Fundação Sicredi and implementation under the responsibility of all entities forming part of the System and all employees. To implement the strategy, we have two structures with different responsibilities: a structure for decision-making and another to guarantee the implementation of the theme. GRI 2-13 * Foundation Committee – Advisory committee to the SicrediPar Board of Directors, in compliance with CMN Resolution 4,945, of September 15, 2021. ** Sicredi Board of Directors Participações S/A – SicrediPar.ESG AT SICREDI ESG is an acronym in English that stands for Environmental, Social and Governance, and corresponds to the Environmental, Social and Governance practices of an organization. The dissemination of the concept brings with it the idea that the company's longevity, in the long term, depends on its ability to generate values ​​in the ESG pillars, that is, to generate sustainable development for its interested parties. Decision-making on related matters The sustainability In the decision-making structure, Fundação Sicredi is responsible for formulating the sustainability strategy and guidelines, which are forwarded for analysis and consideration by the Foundation Committee, responsible for advising SicrediPar's Board of Directors. GRI 2-13 SicrediPar's Board of Directors, in turn, is responsible for decision-making and deliberation at a systemic level, directing the topics for consideration and voting by cooperatives. relevant. GRI 2-13  Fundação SicrediCommittee of Fundação Sicredi*Board of Directors of SicrediPar**CooperativasStructure for decision making: It is the structure responsible for the systemic decision process regarding the Sustainability Strategy.FIND OUT OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AT l1nq.com/psPFt 42 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYSTRUCTURE FOR IMPLEMENTATION: It is the structure responsible for ensuring the implementation of Sustainability Policy and execution of the Sustainability Strategy at all levels of the System. Structure with systemic action Structure with systemic impact Structure with regional action Structure with local action The structure responsible for implementing the Policy and executing the Sustainability Strategy is formed by the Sustainability Committees and the National Sustainability Summit.Implementation of the sustainability strategy Sustainability Committee We are one large System, distributed throughout the country and with autonomy for each cooperative to act locally. To implement our Sustainability Strategy in our various locations of operation, respecting the particularities of the National Sustainability Summit CAS Sustainability Committee Regional Central Sustainability Committee Cooperative Sustainability Committee in each region, we have Sustainability Committees at three levels of activity: national , regional and local. Central committees have the role of guiding the implementation of sustainability at a regional level, evaluating, debating and recommending initiatives related to the topic. Currently, the five centers have established committees. Cooperative committees evaluate indicators and recommend actions at the local level. The final decision on implementation rests with the Board of Directors of each entity. At the end of 2022, we had 77 committees installed at the level of cooperatives. The CAS Sustainability Committee's role is to advise the CAS executive board on its initiatives on the topic. National Sustainability Summit On the 22nd, 24th and 25th of November 2022 we held the National Sustainability Summit, an annual systemic forum that is part of our governance for sustainability and aims to align and evaluate performance and recommend actions for implementation of the Sustainability Strategy in all System entities. The 3rd edition - which had as its guiding theme “Our impact defines us, our legacy moves us” - featured events for SicrediPar, central and CAS leaders, members of the Sustainability Committees of cooperatives and centrals, employees who work in the development of cooperativism and sustainability and also open events for all employees. The events addressed issues such as measuring our positive impact at a systemic level and regional, planning and challenges for 2023, the highlights of 2022, the launch of Sicredi's ESG Guide, as well as lectures on current topics such as: • Climate change in the financial market; • The importance of sustainable finance in business development and generating positive impact; • Cooperativism as an inducer of local development and financial inclusion; • The Sustainability Committee as an important governance mechanism and driver in the evolution of the sustainability performance; • The importance of sustainability for building a more prosperous society and how to build a legacy. 44 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYSustainability Drivers To guide our Sustainability Strategy, we established our drivers and focal themes, which demonstrate where we can, in fact, generate a positive impact. The process of building and updating our focal themes It happened in a collaborative way, involving the centers, cooperatives and areas of the CAS, as well as sustainability experts and leaders on the topic. GRI 3-1We have three drivers divided into 12 focal themes, which are our material themes, that is, the themes most relevant to sustainability and where we should focus our efforts in order to promote sustainable business growth. GRI 3-1 | 3-2Strengthen our governance modelSpread cooperativism and sustainability Promote inclusion and diversity Promote financial education Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Ensure integrated risk management Promote eco-efficient management Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management 1ERADICATION OF POVERTY Mt+i Promote the local economy Promote financial inclusion Promote the development of people Contribute to the development of communities There were three days of events, with seven external guests, more than ten hours of content and information, impacting more than five thousand employees and leaders of the System.GRI 3-2 Relationships and Cooperativism Governance Local developmentResponsible solutions Operate in a sustainable mannerPromote positive transformations in locations where we are presentStrengthen our business model in a sustainable way 46 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY DIRECTOR: RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM GRI 3-2 FOCAL THEME DESCRIPTION AUDIENCES IMPACTED Spread cooperativism and sustainability Foster a cooperative culture among employees and associates, reinforcing the democratic, collaborative and transparent differential of our management model, strengthening bonds of trust and reciprocity. Expand the understanding of employees and associates about how sustainability affects our business and decision making, taking advantage of opportunities and better managing our risks. External: in the relationship with associates and the community. Internal: in governance, with advisors and core coordinators. In internal culture, with employees. Strengthen our Governance modelIncrease the participation of associates in assemblies and in decision-making, strengthening the feeling of belonging, reinforcing the democratic, collaborative and transparent difference of the our management model, strengthening bonds of trust and reciprocity and ensuring the longevity of our business. Internal: in governance, with advisors and core coordinators. In internal culture, with employees. Promote inclusion and diversity Direct our actions by always respecting the individuality of members, promoting horizontal, lasting relationships and strengthening the values ​​of cooperativism, such as equality and equity. Promote governance inclusive, diverse and equitable, as well as an inclusive and diverse work environment, with plurality of thought, collaboration and innovation. External: in the relationship with associates, community and government. Internal: in governance, with advisors and core coordinators. In the internal culture, with employees. DIRECTOR: RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS GRI 3-2 FOCAL THEME DESCRIPTION IMPACT AUDIENCES Promote financial education Encourage conscious attitudes towards money, offering guidance and advice so that our associates, employees and communities can make considered choices, aligned with their well-being, with autonomy, independence and planning. External: in the relationship with associates, community and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact Identify opportunities to create and improve our solutions, with a look at sustainability, such as: sustainable finance, the Green and low-carbon Economy, businesses with a positive social impact and promotion of the local economy. External: in the relationship with associates, community and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Ensure integrated risk managementWork together with associates to prevent and mitigate impacts related to risks of any nature.External: in the relationship with associates, the community and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Promote eco-efficient managementSeeks to make the operation of our agencies and headquarters more sustainable. Disseminate the implementation of good practices related to eco-efficiency and combating climate change, contributing to making our operation more sustainable. External: in the relationship with associates, the community and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Work with suppliers and management partners sustainableExtend our concerns with sustainability to the supply chain and partners, encouraging them to adopt the best social and environmental practices. Provide support for technical training and define specific criteria for hiring, monitoring and evaluating these suppliers. External: in the relationship with associates, suppliers and government. 48 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY DIRECTOR: LOCAL DEVELOPMENT GRI 3-2 FOCAL THEME DESCRIPTION IMPACTED AUDIENCES Contribute to the development of communities Strengthen relationships with the community, generating bonds of trust and reciprocity, through structured private social investment actions that take into account local needs, aligned with the brand, principles and values ​​of the cooperativism and Corporate Citizenship. External: in the relationship with associates, communities and government. Promote people’s developmentInvest in learning, training, development and innovation of our employees, associates and people in the communities. External: in the relationship with associates, communities and government. Internal: in the internal culture, with employees. Promote the local economyFoster the local economy through partnerships, strengthening our associates' businesses in the locations where we are present and hiring local suppliers. External: in the relationship with associates, suppliers, communities and government. Promote financial inclusionPromote the financial inclusion of individuals and legal entities, inserting them into the financial system and providing access to financial solutions.External: in the relationship with associates, suppliers, communities and government.Commitment to the Global Compact and Development Goals Sustainable (SDG) Our Sustainability Strategy is reinforced through our external commitments, which connect our guidelines to the main global initiatives of the sustainable development agenda. Since 2020, we have been members of the Global Compact, a voluntary action of the United Nations (UN). As a way of boosting discussions on the topic, we work on the Action Platforms of the Global Compact Brazil Network on the following fronts: • Action Platform for Human Rights; • Action Platform for Sustainable Agro; • Action Platform against Corruption; • Climate Action Platform. By joining the Global Compact we are also committed to contributing to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, outlined by the UN to engage organizations in goals such as eradicating poverty, combating climate change and preserving natural resources by 2030. Find out more about the priority SDGs, on page 47. PARTICIPATION IN COP 27 We participated in the 27th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 27), promoted by the United Nations (UN), the world's main climate meeting, which brings together leaders from almost all countries. The event took place in the resort of Sharm El-Sheihk, in Egypt, between the 8th and 18th of November 2022. The manager of Structured Operations and Sustainable Finance, João Pedro Stephanou, represented Sicredi at this year's edition. The opportunity to present a case at the world conference came at the invitation of Sebrae MT, which maintains a partnership with Central Sicredi Centro Norte. During the event, João Pedro presented the Green Energy Program panel – Opportunity for Small Businesses, where topics of cooperative model, governance model, sustainability strategy, ESG funding and good practices in clean energy were addressed, with emphasis on financing photovoltaic solar energy. The economic benefits of credit unions and our entire sustainability movement were also presented. 50 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reference Sustainable Development To direct our Sustainability Strategy and support us in the evolution of sustainability guidelines, we rely on the Sustainable Development Framework. This is a basis for Sicredi's Positive Impact Measurement, providing indicators that allow us to measure our sustainability performance at national, regional and local levels. The material is the result of a great deal of collaborative work that took place throughout 2021. The process it included discussions with representatives from the entire System, to define the indicators that would compose it, in addition to an evaluation by the College of Executive Directors and recommendation by the Foundation Committee and deliberation by SicrediPar's Board of Directors. Since its implementation for cooperatives, in 2022, the Reference has been used as an internal tool to measure the sustainability performance of System entities. In view of this, the analysis of the results is considered a minimum agenda for all of the System's sustainability committees, as it supports the identification of opportunities to advance the sustainability agenda, supporting the construction of action plans. Based on the set of indicators presented in the Benchmark, we provide cooperatives with an online tool (dashboard) that presents their performance data, based on the Benchmark's Executive Vision. Through it, it is possible to generate reports to monitor the entity's performance over time and its stage of maturity. SICREDI'S SYSTEMIC COMMITMENTS In 2022, we began the process of building our Public Sustainability Commitments. In this first moment, we carried out a sector analysis and Sustainability references, bringing important elements to the discussion for decision-making. We build a map that identifies opportunities for themes to outline objectives, initiatives and metrics. In 2023, we will continue the collective construction of our systemic objectives and goals.Business sustainability indicators EXECUTIVE SUSTAINMENT INDICATORS 2021 2022 Active account holders (percentage) 72.46% 75.17% NPS (percentage) 74.8% 74, 4% General principality (percentage) 33.87% 39.40% Market share of deposits in the coverage area (percentage) 3.4% 3.8% Total net worth (billions) 24.9 30.3 Adjusted efficiency ratio to the risk 0.65 0.69 Positive impact indicators RELATIONSHIPS AND COOPERATIVISM 2020 2021 2022 PILLAR PAGE Associates (quantity) 4,901,724 5,579,161 6,488,112 Social 26 Cooperatives (quantity) 108 108 105 Social 13 Employees (quantity) 29 .830 34.127 38.816 Social 150 Associates who participated in assemblies (thousands)286 299 440 Social 61 Associates who participated in assemblies (percentage)9.4% 5.7% 7.4% Social 61 Core coordinators (quantity)11,238 12,908 13,107 Social 63 Associates participating in the Crescer Program (quantity) 48,161 70,010 120,894 Governance 77 Core coordinators trained in basic training – 39.7% 60% Governance 78 Advisors trained in basic training – 58.4% 65.7% Governance 78 Entities with Committees of Sustainability– 52 77 Governance 44 Women in leadership positions – total Elected (core coordinators, counselors and presidents) + statutory + CLT– 30.77% 31.67% Governance 84 Young people in leadership positions leadership – total Elected (core coordinators, counselors and presidents) + statutory + CLT – 22.41% 21.65% Governance 84 52 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYRESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS Sicredi SR 03 | SR 06 2020 2021 2022VALUE GENERATEDPAGE Amount invested in the Green Economy (R$ billion) 18.9 27.6 34.2 Economic 119 Employees trained in topics related to economic, environmental and climate risks 3– 29,037 36,923 Governance 130 Female agriculture (R$ million) 18.24 17.54 18.08 Economic 120 Low Carbon Agriculture (R$ million) 4,061 6,666 8,285 Economic 120 Good agricultural practices (R$ million) 1,525 2,249 2,421 Economic 120 Renewable Energy and Environmental Sustainability (R$ million)2,356 4,531 6,136 Economic 120 Solar energy operations (R$ billion)1.6 3.3 3.5 Economic 119 Absolute greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) ¹21,358.98 20,636.07 28,368, 55 Environmental 137 Total emissions per employee (tCO2e/employee)0.7 0.6 0.7 Environmental 137 National Week of Financial Education Actions Impacted people (millions) 4.4 19 20 Social 90 1 The results presented in the table consider the total emissions following the approach of choosing to purchase energy in Scope 2. 2 The data considers the result distributed in meetings added to the payment of interest on equity, the value of which is presented in the subsequent line. The results distributed in the assembly correspond to R$526 million in 2018, R$670 million in 2019, R$744 million in 2020 and R$853 million in 2021. Positive Impact Indicators LOCAL DEVELOPMENT  Sicredi-DL03  2020 2021 2022 VALUE GENERATED PAGE Municipalities where we are present ( quantity)1,463 1,600 1,796 Social 27 Municipalities with less than 100 thousand inhabitants (percentage)87% 86% 86% Social 27 Municipalities in which we are the only financial institution (quantity)216 230 217 Social 27 Amount paid to local suppliers (R$ million) 576.18 850.7 2,460.4 Social 145 Profit distributed to members (R$ million) 2,990.0 1,191 2,167 Economic 145 Interest on capital paid to members (R$ million) 246.0 338 1,003 Economic 55 Social Investment Value (R$ million) – 158.8 301.3 Social 161 Employee Confidence Index - 88% 89% Social 160 Actions carried out on Day C (quantity) 1,033 1,018 3,514 Social 170 Education programs for children and teenagers Union Makes Life Program Municipalities participants (quantity) 475 472 576 Social 172 Participating schools (quantity) 2,641 2,637 2,945 Social 172 Participating educators (quantity) 23,314 34,953 42,738 Social 172 Children and adolescents (quantity) 282,201 437,070 507,074 Social 172 Cooperative Program s Schools Participating municipalities (quantity) 76 82 119 Social 174 Participating schools (quantity) 145 152 207 Social 174 Participating educators (quantity) - - 320 Social 174 Children and adolescents (quantity) 4,997 4,139 6,570 Social 174 Financial Education Day 4 Participating municipalities (quantity) - - 125 Social 95 Participating schools (quantity) - - 331 Social 95 Participating educators (quantity) - - 2,308 Social 95 Children and adolescents - - 35,128 Social 95 3 Indicator began to be monitored in 2021. 4 Inclusion of data from the Financial Education Journey in 2022. 54 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYFinancial Performance Market context Throughout 2022, we operated in the midst of a challenging economic context, in which the economy had favorable growth, but with high interest rates and an increase in defaults. In terms of growth, Brazilian economic performance was slightly more favorable than official forecasts. In the first and second quarters of 2022, the growth observed in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) showed a positive performance of 1.7% and 3.2%, respectively, so that the initial projection of GDP growth for the year had to be recalculated. The initial estimate of 1.8% was positively revised, with growth prospects between 2.5% and 2.8%, an estimate endorsed by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. In relation to inflation, which remained on an upward trajectory, as a result of the economic contraction resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, the observed rates showed a decrease compared to 2021, with values ​​of IPCA accumulated at 5.77% in the last 12 months. The Selic rate remained high, recording 13.75% p.a. in 2022, the highest value recorded since 2016, which solidifies a perspective of restrictive credit growth. The impacts of the increase in the Selic rate are multisectoral and should represent the keynote of the performance of the Brazilian economy for the year 2023. In this context, the country accumulated more than 69.4 million defaulters, compared to just over 62 million in 2021 . Of Of the total number of defaulters identified in the year, 28.7% have a restricted name due to their inability to pay credit card debts. In response, we worked more intensely on topics that deal with pricing and credit recovery during the year. To this end, we carry out initiatives aimed at billing and financial education to support our members at this sensitive time. We are thus able to guarantee our financial returns while at the same time we generate value for communities. SICREDI COMBINED PERFORMANCE (THOUSANDS OF R$) 2020 2021 2022 TOTAL ASSETS 154,860,895 197,573,755 263,508,623 Assets Availability 1,258,087 1,443,685 1,530,896 Inter applications finance. liquidity13,044,514 33,716,227 34,081,426 Securities 38,410,830 22,513,768 59,931,340 Interbank relations and interdependencies4,364,055 5,809,721 6,994,552 General credit 56,885.22 9 76,316,232 91,729,081 Rural credit 33,068. 493 46,702,898 53,819,453 Other credits 4,665,308 7,390,522 10,773,414 Other values ​​and assets 515,353 499,375 607,816 Permanent 2,649,026 3,181,327 4,040,645 LiabilitiesDeposits 104,638,994 129,536,750 1 53,889,693 Open market funding 2,343,109 3,257,872 5,643. 824 Obligations for loans and transfers15,100,199 18,900,783 24,679,935 Other liabilities 12,220,917 20,665,534 48,692,050 Shareholders' equity and participation of non-controlling shareholders20,557,676 25,212,816 30,603.12 1 ResultIntermediation revenue financial12,663,110 16,959,589 32,101,857 Other operating income 3,669,354 4,401,690 5,446,430 Financial intermediation expenses4,482,667 6,658,784 18,917,892 Other operating expenses 8,470,768 9,860.8 94 ​​12,642,609 Results 3,379,030 4,841. 601 5,987,783 Interest on equity 246,116 338,031 1,003,476 Source: Febraban, Central Bank and Serasa. 56 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE associates participated in the assemblies people have already been through training in Cooperatives 440 439 thousand 47 women in Board of Directors positions02 Relationships and Cooperativism STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL _____________ 60 SPREAD COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITY ________ 75 PROMOTE INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY ___________________ 80 Seeks to strengthen our business model in a sustainable way. Related SDGs: 58Pertencer Program Through the Pertencer Program, we guide members regarding our management model participatory, encouraging active participation in assemblies and in all decision-making processes of your cooperative. GRI 3-3 Through the Program, we establish the rules and guidelines that guide your participation experience. For cooperatives, we provide instruments to expand the activities of members at assemblies. We therefore seek to bring more transparency to our actions and strengthen engagement. GRI 3-3 In addition to face-to-face meetings, which allow contact and relationship with our associates, we have the Digital Assembly Platform. Through it, we promote the democratic participation of members with all the convenience of the digital model, reducing travel and facilitating access, in addition to promoting accessibility for those who may have limitations in participating in person. The platform makes it possible to hold digital or blended events, with live or recorded broadcasts, and voting in the matters of deliberation. Members can clarify their doubts and register their considerations and comments through a chat channel. The tool was made available in 2021 at a time of pandemic, with restrictions on holding in-person events and, during this period, it became essential for members to could remain close to their cooperatives, exercising their role as owner safely and responsibly. Today, the platform is yet another instrument we have at our disposal. willingness to encourage ever greater participation from our associates. In total, around 440,000 members attended the 2022 meetings, which represents 7.44% of those called. Member participationStrengthening our governance model Our members are at the center of our business. Therefore, the assembly is the supreme body of the cooperative society, essential to our governance model. It is the maximum moment of democratic decision-making, where Associates exercise their role as owner, monitoring and deciding the direction of their cooperative. The assemblies are spaces for empowering associates, where each one is a protagonist in building the future of the business, transforming the reality and living conditions of communities. In the System, each entity has an important role in the assemblies. Cooperatives are responsible for conducting the decision-making process with their members, providing information and adequate access to events. The centers support the cooperatives in this process. Fundação Sicredi has the role of structuring and providing solutions that facilitate this process and allow the participation of more and more members, with quality and transparency. GRI 3-348% Men37% Women15% Legal entityMEMBERS PROFILE Less than 30 years old Between 30 and 50 years old More than 50 years old35% 11% 15% 74%37% 28%Associates by age group Associates by segment   Individual    Legal entity   AgroHIGHLIGHTS OF THE DIGITAL MEETING PLATFORM Over the last two years, we have identified that the inclusion of digital has attracted a new group of members, different from those who participated in meetings in person: More than 57% of members who participated in meetings in 2022 had not participated in the last 3 years.GRI 3-3 | Sicredi RC02 60 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL PROFILE OF MEMBERS PARTICIPATING IN THE SICREDI RC11 ASSEMBLY TOTAL AUDIENCE Age Group Under 30 93,454 Between 30 and 50 157,229 Over 50 100,228 Gender Male 202,113 Female 148,622 Unidentified 176 Type of association Associates (Individuals) 350,911 Associates (Legal Entities) 88,77 2 TOTAL PARTICIPANTS 439,683 Percentage of members who participated in the assemblies 20209.40% 5.71%7.44% 2021 2022Core coordinators    Less than 30 years old   Between 30 and 50 years old   More than 50 years old686 6,437 5,984Coordinators by age group Sicredi RC1613.107 Total number of nucleus coordinators in 20223,401 Women nucleus coordinators9,706 Men nucleus coordinators Sicredi Governance Portal RC12 To strengthen the cooperative's communication, relationship and transparency process with our leaders — nucleus coordinators, management advisors and counselors tax — we implemented a new Governance Portal in 2022. Through it, the cooperative can share information, materials and guidelines to support the best performance of their functions. Furthermore, the Platform brings new functionalities, a dynamic experience for the user, integration with the course platform and aims to bring entities even closer to their leaders. With the aim of providing participation in the management and development process of the cooperative, Associates are grouped by nuclei and organized by the Pertencer Program. Core assemblies are important meetings to strengthen the relationship and transparency of our business, as they are where debates and decisions on matters of collective interest to the cooperative take place. At their assemblies, all members can monitor the accountability, evaluate the actions and initiatives developed, contribute with suggestions, clarify doubts and address other issues. In 2022, we surpassed 5,400 active cores. It is also in the nucleus that, together, the associates elect their representative, called the core coordinator. Each coordinator is responsible for taking the decisions of their core members to the cooperative's General Assembly. At the end of 2022, we had 13,107 core coordinators, including permanent and substitute staff. Sicredi RC16 62 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL Sicredi's Code of Conduct is the benchmark for moral and ethical conduct that guides everyone's actions and decisions our collaborators. The document highlights the principles of corporate governance, transparency, equity, accountability and corporate responsibility required in the attitude of each of our employees. The document also guides the internal and external relations of all Sicredi members, regardless of their roles and responsibilities. GRI 2-23 In 2022, we had the approval of the Corruption Prevention Policy, applicable to the entire internal public (employees and statutory employees) and third parties (suppliers, service providers, partners, correspondents, accredited agents), who carry out activities on behalf of Sicredi. It includes the guidelines on the topic and the channels for communicating possible suspicions of corruption related to the System. GRI 2-23 | 205-1 Furthermore, on December 9th, International Anti-Corruption Day, we launched Anti-Corruption training on the Sicredi Aprendi platform. The Policy is available for consultation by everyone employees in the Official Sicredi Normative Repository. GRI 2-23 All Policies, as well as any changes, are approved via systemic deliberation by SicrediPar's Board of Directors. GRI 2-23 To prevent the risk of corruption, we adopt practices that guide our relationships, including the process of prior analysis of hiring third parties who act in the name, interest or benefits of Sicredi, hiring suppliers and service providers services, entering into partnerships, granting benefits, donations and corporate operations involving Sicredi companies. Within the scope of CAS, in 2022, 191 analyzes were carried out. We are committed to complying with the international recommendations of the Financial Action Group against Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing (GAFI/FATF) and complying with current regulations, preventing our cooperatives from being used as a means of carrying out illicit activities. All cooperatives participate in monitoring for Ethics and combating corruption Both documents serve as guidelines for the treatment of conflicts of interest with guidance for employees, business partners and members of senior management, including advisors. Additionally, the Bylaws contain the basic requirements for holding the position, whether on the Board of Directors or the Executive Board. GRI 2-15 | 2-23 | 205-1   We also have a Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Prevention Policy (PLDFT), which establishes guidelines at all levels and entities of the System to prevent its use for money laundering or terrorist financing. THE CODE OF CONDUCT AND THE CORRUPTION PREVENTION POLICY GRI 2-23 Available at: https://www.sicredi.com.br/ site/sobre-nos/relatorios/prevenção à crimes related to money laundering, concealment of assets , rights and values. When contracting products and services, we adopt practices and controls to inhibit misconduct, illicit acts or misdemeanors, seeking to establish rules for direct or indirect accountability, internally and externally, of those involved. The movements performed by members are made available in daily routines. In addition, we carry out monthly monitoring through a specific system integrated with our core systems, which cross-references the records of financial transactions with the member's income or revenue. These procedures allow the identification of atypicalities, which are evaluated individually and, when applicable, are communicated in a timely manner to the Financial Activities Control Council (COAF), whose numbers will not be made clear as they are confidential information. 64 65 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED TRAINING AND COMMUNICATIONS ABOUT COMPLIANCE  GRI 205-2   CENTRALCENTRAL SICREDI BRAZIL CENTRALCENTRAL SICREDI CENTRO NORTECENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTECENTRAL SICREDI PR/SP/RJCENTRAL SICREDI PR/SP/RJCENTRAL SICREDI SUL/SUDESTECAS SICREDI PAR TOTAL GENERAL COM. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. % Senior Leadership 15 13 29 29 46 37 78 70 89 83 7 6 - - 264 238 90.15% Elected 119 66 147 50 291 53 416 57 620 61 1 - 11 8 1,605 295 18.38% Intern 5 6 55 278 267 70 63 324 314 321 300 123 119 - - 1,172 1,118 95.39% Young 66 62 113 111 38 34 186 174 386 340 20 20 - - 809 741 91.59% Average Leadership 374 364 648 621 190 177 1,810 1,754 1 .820 1.733 217 203 - - 5.059 4.852 95.91% Professionals 2,435 2,385 4,091 3,918 1,185 1,142 8,891 8,538 10,158 9,725 2,915 2,783 - - 29,675 28,491 96.01% Technicians 103 103 206 197 69 67 332 328 237 232 3 3 - - 950 930 97.89% GENERAL TOTAL 3,168 3,048 5,512 5,193 1,889 1,573 12,037 11,235 13,631 12,474 3,286 3,134 11 8 39,534 36,665 92.74% EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED CORRUPTION PREVENTION TRAINING AND COMMUNICATIONS  GRI 205-2   CENTRALCENTRAL SICREDI BRASIL CENTRALCENTRAL SICREDI CENTRO NORTECENTRAL SICREDI NORTE/NORDESTECENTRAL SICREDI PR/SP/RJCENTRAL SICREDI PR/SP/RJCENTRAL SICREDI SUL/SUDESTECAS SICREDI PAR TOTAL GE RAL COM. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. WITH. TR. % Senior Leadership 15 2 29 2 46 1 78 8 89 4 7 1 - - 264 18 6.82% Elected 119 7 147 1 291 4 416 3 620 - 1 - 11 - 1,605 15 0.93% Intern 56 3 278 7 70 3 324 45 321 5 123 2 - - 1,172 65 5.55% Young 66 13 113 3 38 - 186 20 386 13 20 2 - - 809 51 6.30% Average Leadership 374 43 648 6 190 8 1,810 212 1,820 33 217 1 - - 5,059 303 5.99% Professionals 2,435 446 4,091 67 1,185 38 8,891 990 10,158 188 2,915 48 - - 29,675 1,777 5.99% Technicians 103 20 206 4 69 3 332 47 237 8 3 - - - 950 82 8.63 % GENERAL TOTAL 3,168 534 5,512 90 1,889 57 12,037 1,325 13,631 251 3,286 54 11 - 39,534 2,311 5.85%Com. (Communiqué) Tr. (Trained)Training All our Employees become aware of the Code of Conduct at the time of admission. Furthermore, within the "Welcome to Sicredi" track, employees carry out online training on Still at Sicredi Learn, within the regulatory axis, employees also carry out online training on the Money Laundering Prevention Policy and the Financing of Terrorism. GRI 2-23 | 2-24In 2022, in order to reinforce the dissemination of the topic during the electoral period, We have prepared the Guidelines for Conduct in Practice Guidebook, guiding employees and statutory employees regarding the expected conduct in view of the institution's political neutrality. GRI 2-24th theme, through the Sicredi Aprendi platform (learn more on page 154). At the end of the training, the employee electronically registers their “Acceptance” regarding the content. GRI 2-23 | 2-24 66 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL REPORTING CHANNEL: On the institutional website sicredi.com.br/ denuncia, accessible 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or by telephone on 0800 646 2519, from 9am to 6pm, Monday to Friday, except on holidays. GRI 2.26 | FN-CB-510A.2 https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/ atendimento/canais/denuncia/Denúncias We provide a channel exclusively for receiving complaints related to illegal acts and conflicts of interest, as well as other situations of misconduct involving employees and of the System, in addition to service providers who carry out activities on behalf of Sicredi. GRI 2.26 | FN-C B-510a.2 The Compliance area is responsible for managing the Reporting Channel, the treatment of reports is carried out in strict compliance with the rules for preserving the secrecy and anonymity of the whistleblower. The channel is also available for any questions regarding possible misconduct. GRI 2 .26 | FN-CB-510a.2Ombudsman We have an Ombudsman, responsible for responding to complaints and requests from members, and implementing systemic improvements based on them. The Ombudsman's Office is a unique organizational component that serves all entities and companies in the System and deals with demands received through various channels, such as the Ombudsman's Office itself, Bacen, Consumidor.Gov.Br and Procon. GRI 2-25 | 2-26 Complaints made through these channels follow a flow of treatment mediated by the Ombudsman, which involves the collection of information for your best solution. This mediation takes into account our mission, vision and values, in addition to paying attention to legal return deadlines and applicable resolutions. GRI 2-25 | 2-26 After this process, we contact the complainant to provide the necessary clarifications and classify the complaint into four categories: Unfounded, Applicable with solution, Applicable without solution or Not conclusive. The only exception is the RDR Bacen channel, which has different classifications, as cases are judged by the regulator itself. GRI 2-25 The demands received are used as inputs to support more effective action, directing actions that aim to improve service and relationship experiences, both for cooperatives and for the business areas of the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). GRI 2-25 Finally, all information collected is translated into reports aimed at internal areas and external sources, such as advice and auditing, always in compliance with the legal obligations required by the regulator. Every six months, the data is presented to the Audit Committee, the Executive Board and the Board of Directors. They are also occasionally reported to SicrediPar's Fiscal Council and Risk Committee. GRI 2-25During the year, we made important advances in the Ombudsman's Office by reinforcing the strategy for mapping the risk of conduct in the relationship and the process of request for improvements to product areas based on the analysis of complaints, in addition to other improvements, such as the first Summit on the topic. COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ACTIONS CARRIED OUT BY THE OMBUDSMAN'S OFFICE DURING THE YEAR • Update of the training track “The member complained, what now?”, with adaptation in Libras for all videos. • Communication calendar to discuss topics relating to the Relationship Policy and Risk of Conduct in the Relationship. • Update the Relationship Policy training, available on Sicredi Aprendi, in the regulatory axis. 1st OMBUDSMAN SUMMIT In 2022, we held the 1st Ombudsman Summit, which connected employees from cooperatives and CAS to discuss relationships with members. The event was attended by 151 employees and two external guests, references in the topics covered. OMBUDSMAN FOCAL POINT The Ombudsman Focal Point Program establishes training and guidance on handling complaints and good relationship practices to two employees from each cooperative, who become points of contact between the Ombudsman's Office, located in the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS), the cooperatives and agencies. This way, we are able to work on passing on information and improving the member experience. 68 69 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODELMember Needs Governance Impact Provision of Accounts Need of the Regulator Governance Impact Accountability OMBUDSMAN BACEN PROCON OTHER CHANNELS GUIDANCE RISK ANALYSISConsumer .Gov.Br REPRESENTATIONSYSTEMSDATA OMBUDSMAN INCIDENTSREPORTING STRATEGY OF REGULATED CHANNELS CONDUCT MANAGEMENT IN THE RELATIONSHIP OMBUDSMANStructure of operation of the Sicredi Ombudsman's Office 70 71 REPORT OF SUSTAINABILITY 2022 STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODELSafety In 2022, we reinforce the security of our digital channels and protection of corporate equipment, resulting from the identification of new threats and a more challenging scenario. With this, we implemented new technologies in corporate equipment, in branch network security, in channel and application security tests. A broad security awareness program was implemented, in addition to improving processes and security standards in development, to promote risk reduction. Sicredi RC13 In actions preventive measures to combat fraud, we have increased new technologies that aim to expand our capacity to identify fraud and we have improved the processes for bringing in new members, mitigating the risk of ideological falsehood. In 2022, our Electronic Transaction Security indicator achieved a result of 99.9957% protection across channels, contributing to risk mitigation and a better experience for associates. Sicredi RC13 In physical security, with the evolution in branch controls and centralized monitoring of images and alarms that resulted in greater security for our associates and employees, we achieved an 82% rate in preserving the values ​​of agencies that suffered criminal attacks. Sicredi RC13Cybersecurity In order to provide greater security to members during their electronic transactions and safeguard their data, we have internal technologies and processes that prioritize cybersecurity in our services and products. In this sense, we manage information and cyber security risk through a specialized model that considers threats, potentially used attack surfaces, the probability of occurrence and the possible impacts on the business in the event of a risk materializing. The model also considers the preventive, detective and corrective controls we use to mitigate threats. SASB FN-CB-230a. 2 The controls and the control model Risk management is based on cybersecurity frameworks and best practices, including NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology), CIS (Center for Internet Security), ISO 27001, SANS (Incident Handler's Handbook) and MITER ATT&CK, complying with legislation , regulations and self-regulations to which we are exposed. SASB FN-CB- 230a. 2 In the event of an information security incident, we have a formalized process that includes identification, containment, response and investigation of the event, as well as the subsequent recording of information to address weaknesses and lessons learned. SASB FN-CB-230 a.2 We also have automated preventive controls to identify possible vulnerabilities in information systems, with established processes that include the identification, categorization, classification and treatment of identified vulnerabilities. SASB FN-CB-23 0a.2 Data protection We have developed a broad Data Protection and Privacy Program, applying since 2019 the concepts and provisions of the General Law for the Protection and Privacy of Personal Data (LGPD) and other related legislation in its business processes. Respect for the privacy of data subjects who interact with Sicredi (whether members or non-members) is a fundamental precept within the organization's banking and service activities. To support this program, we have a structure distributed – with the coordination of actions being carried out by the Data Protection and Privacy management, located at Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, and with those responsible (data managers and their respective assistants) in each entity of the System (single cooperatives, central and centralizing entities) for the adjustments of their activities. In the formal regulatory structure focused on data privacy, we have internal and external policies, which stipulate the main processes, roles and responsibilities regarding the discipline. The data protection and privacy program has four basic pillars to support it. • Legal pillar: which evaluates all contractual relationships we have with other parties – whether they are associates, non-associates, suppliers, partners, third parties and other stakeholders with necessary legal binding. It is important to mention here that the contractual legal business relationship was not and will not be amended – due to the existence of a legal basis with associates that authorizes the legitimate interest or execution of contracts to complete the perfect legal relationship between these parties. • Information technology pillar: which evaluates the structural part of the IT infrastructure (and, consequently, information technology) to validate security adequacy compatible with regulatory requirements. Find out more at: https://www.sicredi. com.br/ site/protecao-e-privacidade/ 72 73 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL• Process pillar: which evaluates in particular the processing of personal data carried out in each Sicredi product and service (at any level, be it CAS – considering systemic, central and cooperative processes) and classifies them into Data Processing Operations (OTDs), which perform the regulatory role of recording data processing. • Training and awareness pillar: which works on all actions necessary to change culture regarding the use of personal data. This pillar is considered to be of fundamental importance: even implementing all the necessary procedures of the other pillars (considered technical), if the behavior of the people executing the process in relation to data processing is not modified and adequate in accordance with the attributes of the law, events of non-observance of data privacy practices will continue to exist. During 2022, 9,017 requests from data subjects were met – a procedure provided for by the LGPD, where data subjects can ask data controllers how their information is being treated, with whom it is shared, corrections of information, mandatory deletion or anonymization of data and other information provided for in the legislation. There is no specific legal deadline for responding to these requests provided for by law, but the current understanding assumes that these responses must be carried out within 15 days. The average of our Service Level Agreement (SLA) was 3.94 days. All answers are based on data processing information maintained by the data protection and privacy program, which currently has 600 data processing operations duly documented and catalogued. Operations with third parties participating in Sicredi's data processing chain were also documented, with a management process over these suppliers in order to guarantee the same respect for the privacy of data holders as assured in internal processes. We understand that the management of all information under the supervision of Sicredi is fundamental to the guarantee, effectiveness and consolidation of the Program. No data breach incidents were recorded during 2022, with 25 minor events recorded and duly handled by the Management Process of Sicredi Data Privacy Incidents. Given the low severity of these events and the absence of damage to data subjects, there was no need to communicate to the National Data Protection Authority (ANPD) or data subjects in any of the cases. Institutional Visits Program We have an Institutional Visits Program to the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS). Visits are a unique opportunity to interact with our audiences and provide a immersion experience in cooperativism. Visitors are welcomed into the physical space of Fundação Sicredi and discover the Sicredi Memorial, a complete structure dedicated to presenting the history of credit cooperatives and the positive impact of our business model. During visits, with the support of interactive technologies, we present content that covers our history, purpose, Sustainability Strategy and our portfolio of non-financial solutions. Aiming To further enrich this space and the experience of the countless visitors we receive, we installed in 2022, the year in which we completed 120 years of history, the Sicredi Gallery, in which we present some of the main awards and recognitions we have received throughout our history.BIBLIOTECA DO SICREDI Installed in the Fundação Sicredi space, at CAS, our Library has systemic reach, serving members and collaborators of all cooperatives that have the pouches system, with a specific collection on cooperativism and its activities in various sectors. It also has a special session focused on credit cooperatives, to preserve and disseminate the history of credit cooperatives in Brazil and around the world. With the Sicredi Library, we promote cooperative literature and encourage reading as a means of valuing and developing people. During 2022, we received 117 groups, a total of 3,345 visitors through the Program of Institutional Visits to CAS.Spreading cooperativism and sustainabilityDISPREADING COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITY 74 75 2022 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODELFind out more at: sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/cursos Crescer Program The Crescer Program is a cooperative education initiative available for everyone: members, non-members, counselors, core coordinators and collaborators. GRI 3-3 Through the Program, we provide experiences so that people learn more about Sicredi, its governance, benefits and differences in relation to other financial institutions. GRI 3-3 With Crescer, we aim to provide participants with educational training, improving their participation in the management and sustainable development of the cooperative. In the case of associates, we help them understand their role as owners, qualifying the participation of each of them in their ventures and giving them the possibility of develop as future leaders. To align the Program's strategy with our business, we have several materials that connect the theme of cooperativism to the five stages of relationships with our members and other audiences linked to the System: Prospecting for members: presenting cooperativism to people who are not yet members . Welcome: presentation of our competitive differences to new members. Associate training: strengthening the member's relationship with Sicredi and the cooperative movement, bringing them closer to their cooperative so that they can play the role of owner. Leadership training: development of leaders for the sustainability of our System, such as core coordinators and administration and tax advisors. Employee training: preparation of cooperative teams to carry out the other stages of the Program with members and the community. These steps are implemented considering the reality of each audience. In them, content is presented in a dynamic and interactive way in meetings. In addition, we also have specific training by segment: Grow for young people, women, agribusiness, PF and PJ. NUMBER OF ADVISORS TRAINED IN THE CRESCER* PROGRAM GRI 3-3 | Sicredi RC07 2020 2021 2022 TOTAL 789 768 1,039 * There were records retained from previous years and the fact that the training of leaders composes the development benchmark sustainable, influenced the increase in the number of registrations. There was also renewal in the boards of some cooperatives, where training took place in 2022. And finally, online training for leaders at Sicredi na Comunidade was released. More than 439 thousand people have already undergone cooperative training since the beginning of the Program. In 2022, 120,894 people were trained. GRI 3 -3 | Sicredi RC06 To make the Program even more accessible for everyone, we developed it in 2022 an online version of the training, which takes place within the Sicredi Platform in the Community. GROW WEEK Between the 17th and 21st of October 2022, we held Grow Week, with the aim of bringing knowledge about cooperativism to everyone who interacts with our business. Broadcast on our course platform, it aimed to encourage cooperativism through cooperative education. Along with the Crescer Week actions, we promote the celebration of International Council of Credit Cooperatives (DICC), celebrated annually on the third Thursday of October, and in 2022 it will be celebrated on the 20th. The date, organized by the World Council of Credit Cooperatives (WOCCU for its acronym in English), highlights the contribution and the positive transformations generated by the segment in society based on the motto “Empower your financial future with a credit cooperative”. During Grow Week we had 4,318 graduates (in-person and digital) In total, we reached more than 120 thousand people trained by the Crescer Program in 2022 76 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022SPREADING COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITYTraining in cooperativism In addition to the Crescer Program, our cooperatives and centers also conduct a series of events and training to spread cooperativism among employees and external audiences. In this way, we strengthen the theme in society and in the communities where we are present. GRI 3-3 Na Sicredi Aprendi platform, we made the Cooperativism course available to all employees, on the “Welcome to Sicredi” track. Sustainability training By bringing knowledge about sustainability and its relationship with our business to employees, we put our Sustainability Strategy into practice, supporting the local implementation of our systemic initiatives and empowering cooperatives and centers to take a leading role in sustainable development. We do this through a series of instruments available through our Sicredi Aprendi platform, whether in synchronous or asynchronous mode. GRI 3-3 In 2022, we made available various materials, web series, training and chats that support our employees and leaders on sustainability and ESG topics, such as the Sustainability Committee and Sustainable Development Reference workshops, the Sustainability in Practice series, and the Sicredi ESG Guide. Furthermore, we reviewed the Sustainability course, on the “Welcome to Sicredi” track and the Training for the Implementation and Development of the Sustainability Committee. In 2022, we trained 7,781 employees on sustainability, with a total of 8,803 hours of training. GRI 3-3 | Sicredi RC10Its content addresses how the topic represents the basis of our business and presents our difference to the communities and our associates. In 2022, we trained 10,903 employees on cooperativism, with a total of 24,246 hours of training. GRI 3-3 | Sicredi RC08ESG GUIDE Sicredi's ESG Guide aims to strengthen the alignment of the Sustainability Strategy, presenting how we do sustainability in practice and what our initiatives are linked to ESG, connecting with the market language. The objective of the Guide is to support senior leadership so that they can take a position on the subject, as well as to lead the discussions of the Committees themselves. Sustainability. Sicredi's ESG Guide is made up of a set of materials available in physical format, delivered to all presidents and executive directors of centrals, cooperatives and CAS, in addition to being available to all employees in digital format on the Sicredi Aprendi platform. 78 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022SPREADING COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITYSustainability Guidelines for Inclusion, Diversity and Equity A Diversity is an inherent part of our business. Our cooperatives are freely admitted and our history includes the inclusion of people, enabling access to the financial system. Furthermore, we seek to build an inclusive and diverse environment, with plurality of thought, collaboration and innovation, considering the needs and individuality of each person. GRI 3-3 Still, we understand the importance of moving further and further on the topic and, to support ourselves in this development, we developed Sustainability Guidelines for Inclusion, Diversity and Equity. This is a document created with the aim of deepening the directions that make up the Sustainability Policy, guiding the System towards best practices in the face of the main challenges related to the topic of Inclusion, Diversity and Equity. GRI 3-3  The guidelines are presented through four dimensions, which must be understood in a integrated and complementary, as shown in the following image: They guide the System in establishing policies and institutional positions. Linked to our portfolio of financial solutions and the business relationship with associates and partners.Linked to our portfolio of non-financial solutions, in the relationship with associates and the local community.INSTITUTIONAL PEOPLE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONSNON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONSRelated to practices aimed at employees and leaders, whether within the membership or the System's functional framework, suppliers, partners and third parties.The four dimensions of the Guiding Guidelines for Inclusion, Diversity and Equity GRI 3-3 Promote inclusion and diversityInclusion, Diversity and Equity Committee We understand that inclusion, diversity and equity are more than just prominent themes in society. The agenda comprises an agenda that dialogues with our values, strategic planning, Inspirational 2030, Sustainability Strategy and Code of Conduct — that is, with everything we aspire to and do. With this in mind, we launched the Inclusion, Diversity and Equity Committee in December 2022. A systemic initiative that has the role of supporting cooperatives in the development of the topic, using the Inclusion, Diversity and Equity Guidelines as a guiding guide (learn more on page 81). The Committee contributes to this agenda being incorporated as a transversal theme in the form of the cooperative's activities and is part of the organizational culture. Sicredi RC01 The initiative aims to promote the topic throughout the System and collaborate in the promotion and development of practices designed to guarantee equality in labor relations and respect for human rights, in addition to offering institutional guidance to actions already initiated in relation to the topic at Sicredi. Sicredi RC01We provide structuring materials to support the development of the theme. You contents are aimed at the implementation of the Committees, including implementation guide, regulation model and communication sheet, inclusive language guide and inclusive gifts. Materials were also delivered aimed at breaking down the Inclusion, Diversity and Equity guidelines, consisting of five guides, namely: Institutional Guide, People Guide, Financial Solutions Guide, Non-Financial Solutions Guide and Fundamentals Guide. Sicredi RC01 For the structuring of materials, we have several specialized consultancies, including the International Finance Corporation (IFC), which contributed to the Financial Solutions and Non-Financial Solutions Guide. In 2022, seven Inclusion, Diversity and Equity committees were created, which will support the development of the topic in a structured way. GRI 3-3 80 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITYWomen's Committee The Women's Committee has a set of actions aimed at associated women, with educational purposes, which seeks to promote gender equality. Its objective is to promote the empowerment and training of women so that they can increasingly assume new leading and leadership roles in cooperatives and communities. GRI 3-3 The initiative's work plan is based on a Training Program in Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Communication and Cooperativism, which is unfolded throughout the meeting calendar. From In 2022, the Women's Committee started to offer, in addition to in-person workshops, an online training day. This modality aims to further optimize the members' learning process and equip them to occupy leadership positions in cooperatives and be multipliers of the knowledge acquired in their communities.47 women participating in the Women's Committees were elected Counselors2,390 participants in the Committees Woman 288 women participants of the Women's Committees were elected Core Coordinators Number of cooperatives with a Sicredi Women's Committee RC17 | RC18 36 202040 202140 2022Youth Committee 1 participant of the Youth Committee was elected Advisor1,245 participants of the Youth Committees 41 participants of the Youth Committees were elected Core Coordinators Number of cooperatives with a Youth Committee GRI 3-3 | Sicredi RC19 | RC20 26 202023 202124 2022The purpose of the Youth Committee is to attract and retain young people in institution. With educational purposes, through personal and professional development actions, it seeks to awaken interest in participating in a cooperative financial institution, making it a promoter of cooperativism and a social protagonist in the region where it lives. GRI 3-3 Young Committee participants, in addition to in-person training, have access to the Young Committee's Online Platform. A digital, responsive and gamified learning environment for young people to get in touch with with the content proposed in a more dynamic and fun way. It is another initiative to develop in young people the ability to act and lead in their communities. Among the themes explored are cooperativism, financial education, leadership, protagonism, self-knowledge, sustainability, entrepreneurship and innovation. Furthermore, during the Committee's journey, young people are encouraged to be protagonists in their communities through the development of impact projects positive. To help with this stage, they participated in a mentoring program to develop their impact projects. For this stage, we have a partnership with Impact Hub, which is part of a global network of impact innovation accelerators and incubators. Also during the year, five young people who are part of the committees participated in the World Council Young Credit Union Professionals (WYCUP), an initiative of the World Council of Credit Unions (WOCCU) and were awarded scholarships. Sicredi RC19 | RC 20 82 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITYDiversity in leadership In order to reinforce our positioning and materialize actions for equity in governance, in March 2022, we elected the first independent advisor to SicrediPar's Board of Directors.Employee diversity We operate aiming to give the entire team the same opportunities for growth and we seek to promote relationships horizontal and lasting, strengthening the values ​​of cooperativism, such as equality and equity. During 2022, we invited our employees to re-register their data, including the racial self-declaration feature. 42% Men58% Women 14% Black and mixed race3% People with Disabilities 40% 1% 54% 37% 6% 62%Leadership by age group Employees by age group    Less than 30 years old   Between 30 and 50 years old   More than 50 years old   Less than 30 years   Between 30 and 50 years Over 50 years old 28% Young people in leadership 38% Women in leadership GENERAÇÃO DIAMANTE PROGRAM Over six years, the cooperative Sicredi Sudoeste MT/ PA, from Central Sicredi Centro Norte, developed the Start Program, focused on the learning and development of young people. In 2022, the cooperative decided to have a new focus and launch the Geração Diamante Program, which seeks to include professionals over 60 years of age in its workforce. Its objective is to expand the diversity of experiences, competencies and skills in their agencies, in addition to facilitating exchanges between generations. With the initiative, 11 professionals over 60 years old were allocated to agencies in four cities in Mato Grosso and three cities in Pará. DIVERSITY AT THE SICREDI ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER (CAS) Since 2018, CAS has been carrying out actions aimed at enhancing Inclusion themes , Diversity and Equity, in order to promote the awareness of collaborators, so that we increasingly have more, an environment of welcome, respect and belonging. In 2020, the Diversity Program - Viva Toda Gente was launched, which aims to “Contribute, develop and direct diversity, equity and inclusion strategies for the transformation of CAS.” The Program operates on the following fronts: Governance, attraction programs, monitoring and development, training, communication and awareness, strategic diversity indicators and inclusive dates. Through the actions carried out, we had an evolution in our attraction numbers during the year 2022, where 40% of the people selected had some diversity criteria, 21% were black people and 20% of people with intersectionality. 84 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITYChannel accessibility We continue to improve the accessibility of our financial products and services and service channels, in line with our commitment to inclusion and diversity. Thus, we reinforce essential values ​​of cooperativism, such as equality and equity. In 2022, we made available the unprecedented video call service function in Libras (Brazilian Sign Language) on WhatsApp. We are the first institution to use the solution, developed in partnership with Botmaker. The new functionality integrates with the service via WhatsApp already carried out using artificial intelligence, through Theo, a chatbot created with objective of optimizing service to members and employees. In 2022, 100% of our ATMs were in compliance with the ABNT– NBR–15250– 2005 standard, which includes tactile key signaling and the use of sound information among its requirements. Sicredi RC04 For our agencies, we maintain technical documentation that guides accessibility requirements in a physical environment, in line with NBR 9050, with guidance for its implementation, under the responsibility of each cooperative. In 2022, 100% of our agencies are in compliance with the regulations. Sicredi RC03 40%   Men   WomenYoung Apprentice Interns Technical Professionals Middle Leadership Senior Leadership ElectedGender of employees by functional level 2022 EMPLOYEES WHO USED PARENTAL LEAVE GRI 401-3 MEN WOMEN TOTAL Number of employees who used the leave (quantity)744 1,152 1,896 Number of collaborators who returned to work after leave (quantity)647 890 1,537 Employees who returned to work after leave (percentage)0.87 0.77 0.81 Number of employees who completed 12 months at work after leave (quantity)445 526 971 Employees who completed 12 months at work work after leave (percentage)0.69 0.59 0.63 RATIO BETWEEN THE REMUNERATION OF WOMEN AND MEN (PERCENTAGE) GRI 405-2 RATIO BETWEEN THE BASE SALARY OF WOMEN AND MEN PROPORTION BETWEEN THE AVERAGE PAY OF WOMEN AND MEN 2020 2021 2022 2020 2021 2022 Elected 68% 68% 67% 70% 63% 64% Top Leadership 87% 81% 77% 91% 84% 78% Middle Leadership 71% 71% 73% 74% 74% 75% Professionals 81% 83 % 82% 87% 88% 88% Technicians 167% 92% 92% 146% 99% 99% Interns 103% 98% 96% 103% 98% 99% Young Apprentice 100% 100% 99% 96% 100% 97% TOTAL 61% 63% 64% 67% 68% 69%36% 34% 37% 38% 54% 88% 82%64% 66% 63% 62% 46% 12% 18% 86 87 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITYpeople impacted by education initiatives financial +20 million +45 thousand products aimed at the Green EconomyR$34.2 billion 20.6% growth in the credit portfolio 574tCO2e avoided through self-generation of energytons of carbon neutralized03 Responsible solutions PROMOTING FINANCIAL EDUCATION _______________________ 90 OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ______ 97 ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT _______________ 124 ACT WITH SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS WITH SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT _______________________________________________ 132 PROMOTING ECO-EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT _______________________ 133Operate in a sustainable manner. Related SDGs: 88Promote financial education Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis Program With the purpose of cooperating towards a sustainable financial life, we have Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis, our Financial Education Program. Through it, we assume the role of transforming agents, with actions developed to connect us to the reality of associates, employees and communities, generating a positive impact on their lives. GRI 3-3 In 2022, we promoted a total of 10,437 financial education actions, including the ENEF Week, which together impacted more than 20 million people among the different audiences covered by the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, in 1,404 municipalities. GRI 3-3 | Sicredi SR01To support the construction of the strategy and planning of actions for each cooperative, in 2022, we organized the Program materials into a learning journey, which represents the different moments of contact with our audiences. We created the representation of the journey as a non-linear cycle, which symbolizes the ability of cooperatives to plan their actions according to the local reality and the characteristics of each audience, considering their moment in life, learning style and prior knowledge on the topic. . GRI FS16Banking Award Transformation 2022 The Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis was nominated and elected by popular vote as the best Financial Education Initiative in Brazil in the Banking Transformation 2022 Awards, a ranking carried out by Cantarino Brasileiro. The choice was made online, which evaluates how these actions promote positive impacts on society. In its 18th edition, the Award aims to promote, encourage and value the main cases in the sector, highlighting innovative projects.1,177 million Turma da Mônica comic books distributed Around 20 million people impacted 10,437 actions aimed at members and communities Learning journey of the Cooperation Program at Ponta do Lápis Support Initial moment of contact for people with the theme, concepts and the importance of looking for financial life. A deeper dive into concepts, practices and exchanges that can generate concrete changes and practical actions. Opportunity for continued dialogue, materials and actions to be applied in everyday life or in monitoring everyday practice.Awareness-Raising Deepening 90 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING FINANCIAL EDUCATIONThroughout the year, we structure materials for new audiences: GRI FS16 Popular income • Awareness raising “Making money simpler”: carrying out a talk about how we can simplify our relationship with money; • Deepening “Financial education for what?”: stimulate awareness of the main financial life traps and share tips to overcome everyday challenges. Family farming • Awareness raising “Making financial life easier”: promote reflections on financial life in the countryside; • In-depth “Talking about financial life”: encourage family conversation to promote a transformation in the financial life of the person, family and property. Investor • Awareness raising “Simplifying investments”: demystifying investments to everyone, especially for those who have not yet invested; • In-depth “Starting to invest”: building an investment plan aligned with the moment in life and personal goals. To facilitate the organization and access to Program materials by cooperatives, we developed a new repository of materials, with a more dynamic and intuitive interface. The Program also gained various promotional materials such as piggy banks, t-shirts and mugs, as well as support materials, which support building healthy financial habits on a daily basis. These include stickers, a collection of refrigerator magnets with financial education tips and a magnetic bill holder. A highlight was the notebook “Finanças na Ponta do Lápis”, which aims to help people organize their financial lives. GRI FS16 In 2022, cooperatives carried out local initiatives with specific materials to support the development of actions for the public “Renda Popular”, where 16,934 people were impacted. SASB FN-C B-240a. 4. Aiming to expand the positive impact of the Program, we launched the Sicredi Financial Education Fair, which was created with the purpose of being a large permanent national movement, with all our cooperatives mobilized throughout the year to bring financial education to their members, employees and communities , promoting activations in different sizes and formats. GRI FS16Main financial education actions Discover the main actions and materials delivered during 2022, divided by impacted audience: Members and non-members: • Awareness-raising actions for popular income, family farming and investors audiences; • In-depth thematic workshops for all audiences (Talking about Financial Life and Financial Education for what? and Starting to Invest); • Finance Notebook in Ponta do Lápis. Children • Expansion of the systemic partnership with Turma da Mônica; • Awareness raising actions and various games; • Development of the Financial Education Day in Schools. Collaborators • Sharpening the Pencil Workshop; • ENEF Week. The construction was based on the concepts of economic psychology and behavioral sciences, emphasizing emotional aspects and the influence of context in making decisions that impact financial life. GRI FS16 We use the COOPS Method as a guiding principle to develop new initiatives. He is structured in five verbs, which represent the step by step to improve people's financial lives:  GRI FS16   (C) Awareness (O) Observe (O) Organize (P) Prepare (S) Sustain 92 93 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING FINANCIAL EDUCATIONWeek ENEF The 9th National Financial Education Week (ENEF Week) took place between December 12th and 18th, 2022 with the theme “Financial Resilience”. The event is an initiative promoted by the Brazilian Education Forum Financial (FBEF). GRI 3-3 With the aim of promoting the National Financial Education Strategy, ENEF Week concentrates several free educational actions to disseminate financial, insurance, social security and tax education. Furthermore, it aims to contribute to strengthening citizenship and the efficiency and solidity of the National Financial System, supporting conscious decision-making by consumers. GRI FS16 We have participated in ENEF Week since 2016, being recognized, year after year, for the number of initiatives and audience reached. Among the initiatives carried out, both in person and in virtual format, we have lectures, workshops, courses, campaigns and posts on social networks, aimed at employees, associates and communities. Financial Education Journey in Schools Since 2018, financial education is one of the transversal themes that must be developed in all teaching stages of national education. As a result, in 2020 the topic became mandatory in schools, complying with the National Common Curricular Base (BNCC). With the aim of helping students achieve a sustainable financial life, in 2021 we launched the Journey of Financial Education in Schools, an initiative of the Cooperação na Ponta do Lápis Program aimed at teacher training. Thus, it aims to connect the theme with the school curriculum, considering the different Brazilian contexts in a inclusive and integral. The Journey is a complete training for teachers, which encourages their autonomy to work in the classroom, bringing an active and interdisciplinary pedagogical proposal that connects with the context and reality of each school community. The initiative includes the distribution of various authorial pedagogical materials, developed by experts and has pedagogical advisors who are partners of the cooperatives. These professionals are qualified by Sicredi to, together with the cooperative development teams, implement the Journey in schools and provide pedagogical support to educators throughout their training. By the end of 2022, we qualified 30 pedagogical advisors to develop the Financial Education Journey in Schools, which was carried out by 31 cooperatives. During this period, the Journey reached 125 municipalities and 331 schools in different regions of Brazil. We trained 2,308 teachers who are equipped to build pedagogical strategies focusing on financial education. The teachers carried out their pedagogical strategies with 35,128 students from the 1st to the 5th year of Elementary School, from public, private, rural and quilombola schools. GRI FS16 Furthermore, in 2022, we carried out the first Continuing Training of the Journey of Financial Education in Schools, with the participation of 39 professionals, including pedagogical advisors and cooperative teams, representing our five centers. GRI FS16 ENEF Live Systemic Week “Yes or No, Money in Hand – Financial life is not luck, it is knowledge”. We invested in the wide dissemination of Turma da Mônica’s financial education to children. Systemic campaign of the Cooperation Program in Ponta do Lápis, with the concept “Financial Life is not luck, it is knowledge”, and with the web series “Yes or No, Money in hand”. Actions of the Week ENEF 1,408 20203,033 2021968* 2022 *Due to the date of the ENEF week of 2022 being Held between December 12th and 18th, the period before Christmas and end-of-year festivities, financial education actions were distributed throughout the year. 94 95 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING FINANCIAL EDUCATION FINANCIAL EDUCATION EXPERIENCES IN VILA DA MÔNICA, IN GRAMADO (RS) Parque da Mônica, located in Gramado (RS), was opened in October 2022 and has more than 30 attractions, has a area of ​​11 thousand m² and capacity to receive 1,200 people simultaneously. With the aim of offering learning experiences in financial education for children and publicizing the partnership between Sicredi and Mauricio de Sousa Produções, spaces will be implemented coordinated by the cooperative development team of the Sicredi Pioneira cooperative, from Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, which will promote learning related to the theme in the park’s attractions. EVENTS ON FINANCIAL EDUCATION Participation in the Latin American Education Congress and Financial Inclusion (CLEIF) On September 27th and 28th, 2022, the Latin American Congress on Education and Financial Inclusion (CLEIF) was held, broadcast online. The Congress brought together renowned speakers and specialized audiences to identify and define best practices and uses for promoting and accessing financial services. The Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban), with the support of the Central Bank of Brazil, was part of the “Financial Health Summit”, which is organized by Felaban (Latin American Federation of Banks) and brings together 18 countries on the continent and more than 600 banks and financial institutions in the region. Sicredi was the only cooperative financial institution that participated in one of the event's panels, on “The importance of measuring Financial Health for Financial Institutions”. Relationship with associates The close relationship with associates is part of our essence, after all, in cooperativism they are the owners of the business. Per We seek to understand your needs, offering financial solutions that add income and contribute to improving quality of life, promoting the local economy and financial inclusion. GRI 3-3 Therefore, our Relationship Policy with Associates, customers and users of Sicredi's Financial Products and Services establishes that the relationship must be based on the principles of cooperativism, our values ​​and regulatory and ethical determinations. In addition Furthermore, the document reinforces the need to provide information in a clear and precise manner and to respond to demands in a timely manner. GRI FS15 In the first half of the year, we updated the Policy and, throughout 2022, we carried out controls and implemented processes with the aim of acting more deeply on financial inclusion. We also seek to make our relationship with associates more transparent and communication simpler. GRI 3-3 In Policy management, We work with greater attention to the needs of members who make up our most vulnerable audiences, understood as those who may encounter difficulties in using our services. Some examples are people with disabilities, the elderly and people who live in more vulnerable communities and with little access to information. GRI FS15 To achieve this, we developed a matrix to map the member base and identify potentially vulnerable audiences by products and services and the their different degrees of vulnerability.OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact 96 97 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTE FINANCIAL EDUCATIONAssociate satisfaction To monitor employee satisfaction associates, we carried out several surveys with this audience. The main metric used by the organization to measure the relationship experience with the brand is the Net Promoter Score (NPS). For more than a decade, we have carried out the NPS survey to monitor the satisfaction of our members. The interviews are carried out over the phone and the NPS is generated based on the answers to the following question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, how likely are you to recommend Sicredi to a friend or colleague?” NPS allows us to identify how satisfactory the relationship experience with our brand is to the point of our associates become promoters of it. Promoters are members who stay with us longer, consume more products, support the prospecting of new members and have a greater chance of becoming loyal. The NPS metric was developed by consultants from the company Bain & Company and is used by several companies. One of the main advances made in 2022 was the update of the Accredited Agent channel, an initiative that aims to serve, through partners, the communities where we do not have physical branches. One of the improvements made during the year was withdrawals via Pix, allowing anyone, member or not, to make withdrawals from accredited agents through Pix transfers, facilitating access to money. Also for this channel, the payment of taxes in the state of Santa Catarina was released, increasing the channel's portfolio and access to more financial services. GRI FS14  With regard to structures and processes, we streamline the association's process by removing the mandatory physical presentation of proof of residence, and we included a self-declaration term about residence in the contract. At the same time, we implemented digital technologies that allow us to eliminate the need to print paper for a series of processes, such as onboarding contracts, membership and changes to baskets and rates. GRI FS1 4 From January to December 2022 we carried out over 173 thousand surveys with associates in the personal segments physical, agribusiness and legal entities and the majority are brand promoters, which resulted in an NPS of 74.36%. More than 70% of promoters highlighted in the survey their satisfaction with the service provided at the agencies. Most mentions of service highlight the main strengths of employees being perceived as helpful, attentive and available to resolve our members' queries and requests. Relationship channels To strengthen our relationship with associates, we establish physical and digital channels in order to meet their particular needs and preferences. In this sense, we developed relationship channels connected to the evolution of our systems, mainly to the new platform that processes our financial solutions. GRI 3-3 We therefore seek to expand integration between all available channels, whether physical or digital, at the same time as we expand the offer of products and services and added new features, such as mobility and omnichannel. Digital channels Throughout the year, we also focused on strengthening our digital channels. A highlight was the Sicredi app, through which we seek to offer a complete relationship for our members, with self-service and personalized incentives. In 2022, we made advances in both functionalities and offering actions, meeting the needs of members and bringing more convenience and ease and adding points of relationship with our audiences. Among the main features of the application, we highlight Favorites Management, which provides more security in transactions for recurring recipients. In addition, Push Pix credit was implemented — an alert to members without a Pix balance, which suggests taking out credit to carry out the transaction. In our channel aimed at receiving legal entities, we have had several technical developments, such as functionality of the Agent Sacador, which provides the functionality of Pix Saque and Pix Troco, reducing the cost of cash management. GRI FS14 Regarding payment methods, we rely on the use of digital wallets, such as ApplePay, vehicle credit and payroll loans, which can be contracted in the app, giving the member more autonomy. 98 99 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTALAnother digital tool that advanced during the year was the Sicredi Also at Sicredi X, we made improvements to the application's home interface, enabling greater clarity and agility, with shortcuts to the most used products and more assertive communication. With a focus on security digital, we implemented the mobile token, which enabled a significant reduction in fraud problems. In Internet Banking, we make the consultation profile available to the secondary user, an important initiative for those members who share the management of their business with their employees. In addition, we provide consultation of Pix keys for receipt linked to a QR Code, which allows entrepreneurs to make internet banking a cash front for their establishment, receiving your sales instantly. GRI FS14Digital evolution We live in a global context of transformation, in which countries, organizations and people are increasingly connected. In line with this process, the incorporation of digital solutions has become an essential part of the business of financial institutions, both to optimize processes and to provide more convenience to members. We remain focused on offering products and services each increasingly connected, accessible and aligned with the digital evolution of the financial sector. We do this while keeping our cooperative essence alive, which values ​​relationships and places the member at the center of the business model. We believe that digital will reinforce these ties, generating value and developing the communities where we are present, both physically and digitally. Our digital evolution is guided by the Fisital service model, which strengthens the digital relationship option, without losing the essence and difference of human service, as this is the member's decision. In 2022, we made important advances in the use of the digital platform, in the individual segment. The main highlights were: Account opening via the Sicredi In this model, we now allow opening accounts for new members via the app. Capture and conversion is done by sending an invitation, used by cooperatives to achieve their growth strategies. Through this channel, we had more than 17 thousand new members. Number of members: One of the main milestones in this process was reaching the level of more than 500 thousand new members on the new platform. Associate migration: An important point in our digital evolution is migration gradual transition of members from the current operation to the new platform. In 2022, we began the migration of associates, an important step forward as we continue on the journey of changing the core. Savings account offer for under 18s: Initiative starting in January, reaching more than 25 thousand new savers. Aligned with the dynamics of entrepreneurs, we offer the return of amounts, a function that makes the return process faster and more fluid . To make it even easier In addition to usability, filters were included in the transactions, allowing the search by type of transaction and totalizers, which make viewing faster. In addition, we offer the generation of a reconciliation Excel file for download, which gives more autonomy and agility for checking sales and closing the cash register. GRI FS14 Finally, thinking about facilitating the day-to-day lives of members who need to print their current account statement to carry out their reconciliations, we provide the option of consulting the blocked balance and identifying beneficiaries for TED, PIX and TEF, with more complete information to integrate into your management systems, generating greater transparency about your financial life and reducing the need to handle statements and physical reconciliations. GRI FS14 100 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTOffer account for members under 18 years of age: Initiative that began in June, having reached more than 8 thousand new members under 18 years of age. Action engine: A platform that captures the needs of members and sends solutions to meet them, aiming to increase principality. With this initiative, we impacted almost 500,000 platform members and more than 20 million shipments. INNOVATE TOGETHER Created in 2018, Inovar Juntos was one of the first initiatives of our journey of digital evolution and emerged as a way to bring us closer to the startup ecosystem to seek opportunities for the development of our business. In the program, startups sign up to participate in innovation challenges, offering solutions according to our needs. The entire development process occurs through our interaction with startups and, when the project is selected, these companies can be hired as suppliers or partners. In In 2022, the program had 12 ongoing projects focused on issues such as improvements in member experience and optimization of areas such as cognition, open finance, payment methods and marketing, among others. Over its five years, more than 660 startups have participated in the program, with significant results for the business. Find out more at Innovar Juntos (http://bit.ly/41pOty6) WITHIN VOICE REACH: VIRTUAL ASSISTANT ARRIVES AT ALEXA In December 2022, we announced the integration of our virtual assistant, Theo, to Amazon's voice control system, Alexa. The new functionality provides members and the general public with another quick, dynamic and secure contact option for making inquiries and accessing our services via voice command. The new contact option is part of our ongoing digital evolution strategy, which includes service channels, leaving it up to the member to choose how they prefer to be served. Initially, The voice assistant device serves some products such as cards, current accounts and PIX, in addition to answering questions about Sicredi and credit unions. For 2023, the system will gradually expand service to other query functions that are part of our entire ecosystem of solutions.Open finance For Open Finance, an initiative by the Central Bank of Brazil to create a more open and transparent financial system through sharing of data between institutions, 2022 was a year of discoveries, with the registration of new use cases on the market. This large network, which turns 2 years old in April 2023, has been growing stronger. There are already more than 226 thousand shares, which benefited 128 thousand members – resulting in R$89 million converted into business. Throughout the year, we implemented some projects to ensure a positive experience for associates and employees. To strengthen the focus on data, we delivered a project in partnership with Pluggy through the Inovar Juntos program (learn more on page 102). By extracting and organizing the information obtained via Open Finance with the member's consent, we are able to evaluate movements to offer the most appropriate solutions for each profile and need. Furthermore, we were able to evolve even further in data analysis, generating dashboards for consultation. An important achievement of 2022 was the qualification of Sicredi as an Initiating Institution of Payment (ITP). This new feature allows us to offer this new transactional phase of Open Finance to our member base, which creates a wide range of opportunities for us. With it, members will be able to safely carry out financial transactions on the Sicredi app, initially via Pix, using balances from different banks. All initiatives were planned and built to ensure the best experience for employees and users, including education, internal marketing and external communication – such as the advertising campaign launched at the end of December. 102 103 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTOur financial solutions Our financial solutions are developed to meet the needs of members, directly impacting their prosperity, income, financial security and well-being, in addition to generating value for communities where they live. This objective of generating value for communities is reinforced in our internal policies and regulations, such as the Relationship Policy with Associates, Customers and Users of Financial Products and Services (learn more on page 97), the Sustainability Policy (page 42), Policy Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy (page 126), Compliance Policy, Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Policy (PLDFT), Code of Conduct and strategic planning. GRI 3-3 As a result of this careful look, in 2022, our portfolio of products and services generated revenue of R$36.1 billion, divided between the following business lines: SHARE OF BUSINESS LINES IN TOTAL REVENUE (R$ THOUSANDS )  GRI 3-3 | FS6 2020 2021 2022 Value (R$ thousands) Percentage Value (R$ thousands) Percentage Value (R$ thousands) Percentage Credit 11,091,757 72% 14,077,578 69% 23,048,019 64% Financial income 1,571,353 10% 2,882,010 14% 9,053,837 25% Provision of services 2,750,751 18% 3,353,626 17% 4,067,970 11% Banking services 941,934 6% 972,059 5% 1,092,243 3% Insurance 412.3 90 3% 465,354 2% 524,558 1% Cards 701,514 4% 1,034,343 6% 1,464,417 5% Billing 316,063 2% 361,349 2% 393,679 1% Consortia 201,162 1% 292,235 1% 367,335 1% Agreements 82,832 1% 91,847 0% 99,044 0% Other services 94,856 1% 136,439 1% 126,694 0% TOTAL 15,413,861 100% 20,313,214 100% 36,169,826 100%Investments In 2022, we became offer direct access to the capital market with the launch of our variable income operation. Through it, members can trade shares, real estate funds, ETFs and BDRs on the spot market through Home Broker, in addition to receiving digital support via WhatsApp. Home Broker is available on internet banking and for mobile devices. The tool is connected to the Sicredi application, allowing investments to be monitored, as well as sending and withdrawal of resources to purchase assets. Through our partnership with Eleven Research, members can receive information about the financial market and investment recommendations in variable income in the tool. To support the investment journey, we provide a learning trail with video classes covering content such as: “How to invest in the Stock Exchange”, “How to choose Shares, Real Estate Funds and Recommended Portfolios”, “Learn to invest: techniques and strategies”, in addition to a Variable Income Manual. FIND OUT MORE: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/ investments/renda-variavel/aprenda GRI 3-3 104 105 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTCrédito In 2022, our credit portfolio increased by 20.6%, demonstrating our growing ability to support members in meeting their financial needs and contributing to the economic development of the country. Commercial Credit We had a growth of 23.5% in our commercial credit portfolio. Throughout the period, we carried out several actions to raise funds more effectively, aligned with the monetary and sustainability agenda, with options linked to social and environmental aspects (learn more about the products linked to the Green Economy on page 119). In the Individual segment, the highlight was the Crédito Fácil line via the Sicredi app. The line recorded more than 750 thousand operations released throughout 2022, with concessions exceeding R$3 billion. In the Legal Entity segment, credit lines such as the National Support Program for Micro and Small Businesses (PRONAMPE) and the Emergency Credit Access Program (PEAC), created on an emergency basis by the federal government in 2020, were highlighted. , during the pandemic period, and which are still available to MEIs, micro and small companies in the in the case of PRONAMPE and additionally to medium-sized companies in the case of PEAC/FGI. Balance and granting of credit (billions of R$)CREDIT PORTFOLIO 2022 Growth of 20.6% in 2022 R$54.5 billion in rural and targeted creditR$106.2 billion in commercial credit 2020 2021 2022 CONCESSION BALANCE97.2 79 .5133.1 100.1 118.9160.6Throughout 2022, we provide the opportunity to continue obtaining honor from the guarantee funds (FGO and FGI, respectively) of those credit operations that may eventually not partially or fully complied with by the member. In relation to Pronampe, more than 39 thousand operations were released in 2022, in a concession of more than R$2.8 billion. As for PEAC, more than 1.4 thousand operations were released, in a concession of more than R$300 million. Furthermore, we continue to grow our credit lines aimed at financing the generation of electrical energy from renewable sources. In 2022, more than 50 thousand operations were released, with concession exceeding R$2.7 billion.Real Estate Credit In the housing area, we contributed to reducing the Brazilian housing deficit, increasingly expanding our participation in this market of extreme economic and social relevance. In this sense, we closed 2022 with a portfolio of R$1.9 billion in real estate credit. During the year, we had an increase of 19.7% in the property acquisition portfolio compared to 2021. Additionally, we granted R$137.9 million in 412 contracted operations aimed at building residential properties, adding value to the local economy and bringing quality of life to the population. In credit for construction and renovation, we closed the year with R$2.4 billion in active balance. With this product, we encourage the hiring of labor and the acquisition of construction materials in the regions in which we operate. COMMERCIAL CREDIT PORTFOLIO BALANCE BY SEGMENT SASB FN-CB-000.b 2022 OPERATIONSVALUE (R$ BILLION) Individual 5,813,105 51.3 Legal entity (medium and large companies) 398,796 36.4 Small businesses (MEI, Micro and small companies) 1,105,165 18.9 106 107 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTCrédito agroneg leisure We are 2nd institution with the highest release of rural credit in the country. We support the agribusiness sector at all stages of its production chain, providing solutions with socio-environmental attributes for associated rural producers. In the 2022/2023 Harvest Plan, we expect to disburse R$50.6 billion in credit lines aimed at rural producers. In 2022, we will make more than R$10 billion available to family farming through Pronaf (National Program for Strengthening Family Agriculture) . The total credit released by the program was 30% higher than that recorded in the same previous period. During the year, 153 thousand credit operations were carried out via Pronaf. We also highlight that in Harvest 22/23 the Pronaf ABC Mais Bioeconomia and Pronaf ABC Mais Agroecologia lines were offered, which encourage activities and promote investments in technologies with impacts on sustainability and the environment. Furthermore, with the ABC Program, which seeks to encourage investment in agricultural projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation, we had a 35% increase in the number of members served by the amounts released by Sicredi, in compared to the previous harvest. Aiming to benefit communities in the North and Central-West regions of the country, we made R$782.9 million available in operations from the Central-West Constitutional Financing Fund (FCO) and Northern Financing Fund (FNO), representing a growth of 33 % in relation to the same previous period. The release of CPR titles (Rural Product Certificate) had a record performance in the Harvest (22/23), with a release of more than R$12.7 billion representing growth of more than 243% compared to the same period in the previous harvest. We also mention the performance of the Rural Product Certificate (CPR) Solar Energy, a title made available from the last harvest (21/22), focused on financing projects for Solar Energy, a renewable energy alternative for producers. The product already has a portfolio of more than R$90 million. Throughout the year, we presented a series of initiatives aimed at meeting the agro segment: Harvest Survey In 2022, we will make the Sicredi Harvest Survey available. From the initiative, we acquired the capacity to produce and provide intelligence for agribusiness with greater speed and scope, generating value and closer proximity to our associates. Using the tool, in the long term, we will be able to compare the progress of the current harvest with past harvests, increasing the possibility of making our own projections of national production of grains. The Sicredi Harvest Survey is an exclusive project in Brazilian agribusiness, comparable to the work of large public bodies, such as the USDA (United States) and CONAB (Brazil). Agro Program The Agro Program aims to provide, on the Sicredi Aprendi platform, complete training on the legal, technical and operational aspects that encompass Rural and Directed Credit, in order to level the knowledge of employees who work with the segment.CPR Fácil In April 2022, we launched CPR Fácil, a 100% digital solution, which allows the contracting of the Rural Product Certificate (CPR) through the application and enables socio-environmental validation through the contractor's CPF, in order to meet agile credit needs and simple of members of the agro segment. Since its launch, around R$256 million have been released through this new financial instrument. CPR FÁCIL IS AWARDED AT THE WORLD CONFERENCE OF CREDIT COOPERATIVES The solution CPR Fácil was awarded at the World Conference of Credit Unions, which took place from the 17th to the 20th of July, in Glasgow, Scotland. Sicredi's application won in the “2022 Digital Growth Award” category, which recognizes solutions that promote financial inclusion, innovation and scalability. In addition to the awards ceremony, Sicredi shared with employees and members of cooperatives from more than 55 countries a case, in English, which showed the entire creation process of the product and user journey, showing numbers and application results. 108 109 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFERING FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTMeans of payments Cards In 2022, the quantity and amounts transacted in issuance surpassed the year 2021, showing a revenue growth of R$21, 1 billion, with an increase in the card base of 19.7%. Around 600 million transactions (debit and credit) in year 2022, which represents a growth of 37.2%; R$75.5 billion in revenue, representing 40.7% growth, compared to 2021; Credit transactions reached 51.5% of the total invoiced; The total card base reached 8 million cards, an increase of 19.7% compared to last year; Growth in revenue and interchange by 39.3%; 100% of the individual product portfolio available, with 1.2 million cards issued in 2022; 120 thousand cards in the Apple wallet reaching a turnover of R$ 137 million in 2022. PIX With the growing demand for digital evolution, Pix has become a strategic payment method, as it contributes to the digitalization of the sector, generating value for the member and leveraging the growth of our local economies. Two years after its launch, Pix already has more than 500 million registered keys and has moved more than R$12.9 trillion in the country*. The number of people who have already made Pix least once it reached 130 million. We also noticed an acceleration in the functionality of Pix Saque and Pix Troco, totaling R$ 10 million in financial volume transacted in 2022, with R$ 1.9 million in December 2022 alone. 5.95% market share; 62 million transactions per month, representing a growth of 175% compared to the previous year, due to the maturity of this payment method; + 4.5 million members receiving and/or paying; 185% growth in volume of receiving transactions; R$30 billion in positive balance (Receipts vs Payments relationship). * According to a survey carried out by FEBRABAN based on figures from the Central Bank. Among the training, we highlight the Environmental Responsibility module, which supports the employee in verifying the associate's compliance with environmental legislation. In 2022 we totaled 6,638 registrations, distributed among the 15 courses that currently make up the Agro Program. Opening of the BNDES Emergencial product The BNDES Emergencial line aims to resume economic activity in municipalities affected by natural disasters, through isolated working capital financing for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In 2022, the year the product was launched, R$11.8 million in operations were contracted. Rebate for Pronaf operations Decree 11,029 authorized the granting of a 35.2% rebate for Pronaf operations with maturity between January and July 2022, in municipalities that have declared an emergency or state of public calamity due to drought or drought between 09/01/2021 and 03/28/2022, recognized by the state or union. In total, more than R$143 million in rebates were granted, with 23 thousand members benefiting.Microcredit Aiming to support and finance productive activities of entrepreneurs, the National Guided Productive Microcredit Program released in 2022 around R$90 million, benefiting 6,169 members. This number represents growth of more than 3500% compared to the same period of the previous year. Relevance of the female public in agriculture While in the market, the representation of female rural producers is 18.7%, according to the 2017 Agricultural Census, in Sicredi they represent 23.3% of this public. To increasingly increase the relevance of this number, we have lines designed exclusively for the female public, such as Pronaf Mulher, which allocated R$3.8 million in funding and investment credits in 2022. 110 111 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFERING FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTForeign trade In the Foreign Exchange area, in addition to carrying out financial operations and international remittances, We also operate in the intermediation and financing of international businesses. In total, we carried out 32,398 operations during the year, a number 17.35% higher than that recorded in the year previous. Members of 103 cooperatives and 1,245 agencies were served. Of the operations carried out, 632 were for cooperatives, associations and foundations, where we serve 114 different institutions. New Foreign Exchange Law On December 29, 2021, Law 14,286 was published – “New Foreign Exchange Law”, which establishes a new legal framework for the market of exchange. The Law came into force on December 31, 2022 and is intended to establish a modern, concise and legally more legal framework safe, aligned with the best practices of the international market. Furthermore, it aims to simplify, modernize and bring more efficiency to the Brazilian foreign exchange market. Following the new law, we made some moves to adapt processes and use of technology. Quotations and the formalization of operations, for example, will become more digital, reducing the involvement of people, who will be able to dedicate themselves to service and the business. Finimp Local spending During the year, we launched the Finimp Local expenses, a new line of financing that allows the importing member to carry out their imports without the need to have their own capital. The operation allows all costs of nationalizing imported goods to be financed. Pilot of the Trade Finance operation for Women Entrepreneurs (BOW GTFP IFC) In May 2022, we carried out the first funding within the IFC's Banking on Women Global Trade Finance Program, aimed at finance companies in Foreign Trade lines that have more than 51% women in their share capital. To expand service in foreign exchange operations, we started relationships with over 2,060 new associates, of which 57% are legal entities and 43% individuals. Throughout the year, we registered significant interest from cooperatives in exchange products, with some investing in specialists in the segment to provide support to members and, consequently, carry out a greater number of businesses. In line with this initiative, we implemented a support pillar for cooperatives, which acts as support for agencies and headquarters, and is responsible for assisting managers and advisors. We also deliver the COMEX Portal, with the aim of providing a better experience for members while also bringing operational efficiency. The software allows the member to build their own operation and for data and documents to be kept at their disposal, allowing them to make inquiries at any time. In its first phase, the COMEX Portal is intended to be operational software, while in the second it will become business software. In 2023, we plan to deliver a complementary initiative to the COMEX Portal, which will allow members to perform self-service and be able to contract their operations without the need for telephone contact. 112 113 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFERING FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTConsortia In 2022, our consortium operation surpassed the mark of 26.9 billion in active credit portfolio, standing out as one of the largest operations in the country. To facilitate the day-to-day lives of our consortium members, during the year, we launched the Consórcio do Sicredi application, a new mobile solution for member self-service. Through the channel, the consortium member can make queries and transactions autonomously, without the need to travel to your agency. Since its publication in app stores, more than 951,000 events have been accessed on the app, including transactions and queries, allowing members greater transparency about their financial life. We also provide a digital channel for withdrawing credit from the consortium quota in cash, without the need to go to the branch and sign physical documents. The new feature brought agility to the process, with the service is carried out, on average, in two hours, and payments, as a rule, occur within the same day of the request. More than a thousand consortium members benefited from this improvement. In 2022, we also signed up our consortium to the Receivable Values ​​System (SVR), a service that allows individuals and legal entities to consult the Central Bank page (valoresareceber.bcb. gov.br), if they have amounts receivable from banks and other institutions in the financial system. For Promote the importance of financial discipline, we hold Itinerant Assemblies and Business Roundtables in Consortia, events in which we demonstrate the role of the consortium in financial education and in achieving personal goals and projects. Throughout the year, more than 4 thousand members attended these events. Thinking about the socio-environmental impact of our products and services, we rely on the Sustainable Consortium (learn more on page 121). Insurance We believe that products insurance policies function as an important mechanism for the financial resilience of members, fundamental for building a more prosperous society. In 2022, through differentiated service and consultancy work, we provided our policyholders with more than R$2 billion in compensation sinister. The amount was impacted by climate events in property and agricultural insurance, and also by the impact of life insurance during the Covid-19 pandemic. At first In 2022, we experienced a strong drought in several regions of Brazil, which caused more than 60 thousand Proagro Insurance (Agricultural Activity Guarantee Program) activations. In this way, we compensated over R$2.4 billion reais to members through this product. It is worth noting that Proagro's main task is to protect agricultural production from climatic events and other risks involved in food cultivation, in addition to protecting the health of credit granted by cooperatives throughout the harvest. During the year, we adhered to the Principles of Sustainability in Insurance (PSI). With this, we include environmental and social issues in our decision-making process, both in the creation of new products, such as Photovoltaic Solar Panel Insurance (learn more in the box on the side), and in the establishment of mechanisms to prevent Private Agricultural Insurance from crops in embargoed areas or reserves.NEW INSURANCE PRODUCTS Travel Insurance We launched, through a partnership with the SulAmérica Seguros group, Travel Insurance, to cover air and sea travel, with national and international coverage. Among the services, the plan covers mandatory insurance for tourism, including Covid-19, coverage for exchanges and long stays, in addition to the preventive model for health and property cases. The policies are valid for coverage for trips of up to 365 calendar days. Equipment insurance of solar energy We launched insurance for solar energy equipment, including photovoltaic panels and their components. Called “Solar Energy Equipment”, the product is offered in partnership with Liberty Seguros and covers material damage resulting from external causes, in addition to robbery or qualified theft. The product has coverage throughout Brazil with contracts of at least 12 months. 114 115 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTSicredi Asset Sicredi Asset Management is one of the largest asset managers in the country. With a portfolio of products for all profiles, we generate consistent and sustainable returns for investors. We are responsible for managing more than R$74 billion in assets, being the 14th largest manager in Brazil, and the 9th largest manager when it comes to fixed income investments, according to the Brazilian Association of Market Entities Finance and Capital (ANBIMA). In the last 5 years, we have had a growth of more than 100% in the assets under our management. We also have an ESG (environmental, social and governance) equity fund, aimed at companies aligned with our sustainability strategy and that generate a positive impact on society, in addition to profitability for associates. The fund is made up of shares from B3 companies that are references in good social, environmental and governance practices and It is available to members via the app or directly at branches. Companies eligible for the fund have ethical corporate governance, initiatives and actions aimed at preserving and revitalizing the environment, with projects aimed at the transition to a low-carbon economy and renewable energy, in addition to including fair commercial and labor relations. Along these lines, the manager is also in the process of structuring to expand the scope of these guidelines for your entire product portfolio. For the general public, educational content on the capital market is available on the Sicredi website. LEARN MORE AT: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/asset/ LEARN MORE ABOUT THE ESG FUND AT THE LINK: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/ investments/fundos-investimentos/ sicredi -acoes-sustentaveis-esg/INTEGRATOR MODEL Sicredi creates and distributes its own products Regular Offer of Products and ServicesPRODUCER MODEL Sicredi creates products and services and distributes through third-party channels External Offer of Products and Services Offer of New Products/Financial Services Sicredi distributes financial products and services from partners. DISTRIBUTOR MODELComplementary Offering of Products and Services Sicredi distributes third-party non-financial products and services COMPLEMENTARY DISTRIBUTOR MODELASSOCIATESCHANNELS  THIRD CHANNELS  OWN INTEGRATIONSDATAAPPSSicredi platform modelPartnership platform For To meet the needs of our members and offer complementary products and services in their consumer journey, we have established partnerships that aim to offer a broad portfolio of solutions. These partnerships make it possible to both meet the demand for products and services on our channels and take our solutions to third-party channels. To do this, we rely on a platform model that allows us to offer a broad portfolio of our own or third-party solutions, with greater connection in the relationship and integration between physical and digital channels, in addition to including the associate at the center of the value chain. In 2022 we expanded our portfolio by offering food, health and well-being solutions, offered to our corporate members. Aiming for innovation and seeking to bring new solutions to our members, for 2023 we plan to offer sustainable energy by subscription, focusing on monthly savings on our members' energy bills and stimulating the production of clean energy. 116 117 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFERING FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Sicredi Shopping Center In 2022, we launched Shopping, a marketplace developed to expand our presence in the life cycle of our members. The platform has a wide catalog of products, such as household appliances, decoration items, toys and pet shop products, available through partner sellers, selected by Sicredi. The marketplace platform is aimed at members and is available for access on our applications, internet banking and external link. Therefore, DISCOVER SICREDI SHOPPING: https://shopping.sicredi.com.br/ Green economy We believe that the financial sector plays an essential role in the transition to a low-carbon economy and positive socio-environmental impact, and we are attentive to opportunities to support our associates and society as a whole in this challenge. GRI FS7 | FS8 We consider it important to create financial solutions that, in addition to improving the lives of members, generate a positive impact on society and the environment, contributing to the action agenda against global climate change. We therefore offer a series of credit lines aligned with the Green Economy, a classification given to financial products and services that enable the improvement of people's well-being and the social equality while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcity. GRI FS7 | FS8 The Green Economy's main pillars are: • Low carbon emissions; • Efficiency in the use of resources; • Social inclusion. In 2022, we allocated R$34.2 billion in credit aimed at the Green Economy. GRI FS7 | FS8To carry out a survey of which financial solutions fit into this line, we used as a basis the green taxonomy methodology of Febraban, which considers sector criteria and financing lines and programs with environmental and social benefits, allowing greater standardization in measurements of the national financial system. GRI FS7 | FS8 Throughout 2020, Febraban reviewed the parameters and guidelines of the Green Economy taxonomy in conjunction with a consultancy specialized in the topic and the support of the financial institutions involved in the process. In this way, just as in 2021, in 2022 we continue reviewing our internal methodology aimed at measuring this data. In this update, the classification criteria were revised, with increases in existing classifications, as well as the insertion of new sustainable lines aligned with Sicredi's strategies. GRI FS7 | FS8 One of the highlights among the products aligned with the Green Economy is financing for solar energy, through which members can obtain credit to purchase equipment and technology for capturing solar energy and generating clean electrical energy in your homes, businesses and rural properties. We had a relevant evolution in this portfolio in 2022, moving R$3.5 billion, in 52.5 thousand operations, a growth of more than 6% compared to 2021. GRI FS7 | FS8we seek new sources of revenue and reinforce the importance of relationships with associates, placing them at the center of the business. During the year, we provide training, aiming to support our employees about the new business on the Sicredi Aprendi platform. In total, 2,427 people completed the training. 118 119 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTPRODUCT DESCRIPTION Renewable energy creditThe Renewable Energy Credit is intended for financing the acquisition and installation of equipment, works and projects to obtain electrical energy from sources renewable and that do not generate major negative environmental impacts. Energy Efficiency CreditEnergy Efficiency Credit is financing intended for investments to reduce energy consumption by individuals or legal entities. University Credit University Credit is a specific financing product for the acquisition of higher education courses that aims to assist students and associates interested in pursuing higher-level academic training. ABC Program More Seeks to encourage investment in agricultural projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation, in addition to expanding the area of ​​cultivated forests and encouraging the recovery of degraded areas. Find out more on page 108. Microcredit Financing that aims to grant credit to meet the financial needs of individuals or legal entities undertaking micro-sized productive activities, using a relationship-based methodology directly with entrepreneurs in the place where the economic activity is carried out. Find out more on page 110. Investments In 2021, Sicredi FIC Ações Sustentáveis ​​ESG was launched, Sicredi's first ESG-focused equity fund, aimed at companies aligned with our Sustainability Strategy and that generate a positive impact on society, in addition to profitability at associated. Find out more on page 105. Sustainable Consortium Through the Sustainable Consortium, our members can purchase and build container houses and invest in the purchase of eco-efficient solutions, such as water and sewage treatment, energy efficiency and wind and solar energy generation. Find out more on page 114. Credit for MEI, Micro and Small EntrepreneursBy supporting the development of MEIs, Micro and Small Entrepreneurs, we generate income and contribute to the prosperity of communities. Among the products we make available for this purpose is credit granted through the National Credit Program. Support for Micro and Small Businesses (Pronampe). Find out more on page 142. Credit for family farming Credit for Family Farming is an important sustainability instrument, as it contributes to income generation and social development of communities. At the same time, the segment is one of the main responsible for food production in Brazil and the world, having potential for implementing sustainable management in production, with a view to reducing environmental impacts. Find out more on page 142.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL BENEFITS (R$ THOUSANDS) GRI FS7 | FS8 2020 2021 2022 Programs/lines of financing with socio-environmental benefits Women's Agriculture 18,242.3 17,538.3 18,079.2 Low Carbon Agriculture 4,061,471.8 6,666,055.0 8,285,719.7 Good Agricultural Practices 1,525,353.6 2,249,609.6 2,421,416.3 Renewable Energy and Environmental Sustainability2,356,126.5 4,572,827.6 6,136,658.6 Microcredit/Microenterprise 3,978.0 3,671.5 78,223.6 Family Rural Production 7,900,482.5 10,044,566.2 12,545,327.8 Clean Transport - - 3,343.4 Sectors with high and moderate environmental and social contribution High contribution [Environmental] 118,486.2 194,795, 1 254,132.6 High contribution [Social + Environmental]70,138.5 129,868.8 124,502.2 High contribution [Social] 1,721,118.1 2,152,073.7 2,551,004.0 Moderate contribution [Environmental] 711,382.3 1,088. 012.4 1,180,162.6 Moderate contribution [Social + Environmental]414,128.8 492,423.9 551,660.1 Moderate contribution [Social] 19,477.5 27,159.7 45,453.8 TOTAL 18,923,386.3 27,638,601.8 34,195,743.9 In addition to the Green Economy methodology, we also have other classifications for measuring the sustainable portfolio through the following products : PRODUCT DESCRIPTION Solar energy credit With the growing demand for renewable energy, credit for solar energy has become one of our main products linked to the Green Economy. Through this solution, members can achieve credit to purchase equipment and technology to capture solar energy and generate clean electrical energy in homes, businesses and rural properties. Find out more on page 108. Note: In 2022, with the improvement of the Green Economy data measurement methodology, we updated the classification criteria, increased the existing classifications, as well as inserted new sustainable lines aligned with Sicredi's strategies. 120 121 REPORT OF SUSTAINABILITY 2022OFFER FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTSustainable Finance We seek to intensify fundraising for credit aligned with our values ​​and the Sustainability Strategy, through the issuance of bonds linked to social and environmental aspects. In January 2022, we issued our first Green Bond abroad. Green Bonds are debt securities issued specifically for finance projects with environmental benefits. This issuance was made with IDB Invest, a member of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), in the amount of USD 100 million, covering 100% of the resources destined to financing new photovoltaic energy and energy efficiency projects. In April 2022, we raised USD 100 million to finance micro, small and medium-sized Brazilian companies led by women. Resources were mobilized by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, with participation from BNP Paribas and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC). This is a loan with a social bias, aimed at micro, small and medium-sized companies and including the gender factor as a criterion for the use of resources. The financing will be allocated to companies with annual revenue of up to R$6 million and which have women as owners or partners holding more than 50% of the share capital. The initiative contributes to SDGs to which Sicredi is committed as a member of the UN Global Compact. In the operation, objectives 5, 8 and 10 are being met, which seek to promote gender equality, decent work and economic growth and reduce inequalities. We also launched the first Sustainable Financial Bill in the Brazilian market, raising US$151.4 million, with resources converted into credit for projects aligned with sustainability. You Eligibility criteria selected for granting credit were based on the Sustainable Finance Framework, which contains green and social categories. The Framework was validated (Second Party Opinion) by the Dutch company Sustainalytics, which attests to the document's alignment with international standards and principles. ESG RATING In 2022, we underwent an assessment by Morningstar Sustainalytics, a company that evaluates and classifies risks ESG of companies. We received a score of 15.9, being considered a company with “Low Risk” of suffering financial impacts arising from ESG factors. As a result, we are among the 20 best “Diversified Banks” – out of 400 evaluated globally. Among the issues evaluated, it is worth highlighting our positive performance in the Corporate Governance category, achieved by our ESG governance indicators, sustainability policies and fiscal transparency, in addition to being signatories to the Global Compact of UN. Our risk management was also well evaluated due to the use of the GRI standard in the construction of our Sustainability Report, providing transparency in accountability to investors and the general public. Furthermore, ESG issues are the responsibility of our Board of Directors, which demonstrates its integration with the business. INVESTOR RELATIONS During the year, we made our Investor Relations website available to investors. At page, we provide information about our business model, strategy and sustainable development, as well as services to the financial market. FIND OUT MORE AT: https://www. sicredi.com.br/site/ relations-com-investors/ 122 123 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022OFFERING FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH POSITIVE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTRisk management We have a centralized integrated risk management structure, which meets all institutions linked to the System, from Banco Cooperativo Sicredi to central and individual cooperatives. GRI 3-3 Based on the lines of defense model, risk teams act independently from the business areas and internal audit, dedicated to identifying, controlling and mitigating factors that could compromise the sustainability of the business in the short and medium term. and long term, contributing to the maintenance of our solidity and confidence. We consider in our process risk management: Strategic risks, Financial risks and Non-financial risks. Thus, we guarantee the effectiveness of the process, working to evaluate the most comprehensive technical aspects of the risks and reporting or indicating to the Board actions for specific deliberations. Our policies and standards comply with legal requirements and market practices and are reviewed annually, with the aim of maintaining the consistency of guidelines, rules and procedures. A Risk Appetite Statement (RIS) is a systemic document that aligns our appetite with different types of risks, defines alerts and limits, in addition to facilitating the dissemination of the risk management culture in the System. Our appetite for risk is informed by our strategic vision. All institutions that make up the System must follow the RAS and all actions contained in strategic planning must be compatible with the appetite for risks described in the document.Ensure integrated risk management Risks are assessed for each new action that could potentially increase their impact on our results, assets and liquidity, considering, whenever possible, stress scenarios and mitigating measures. GRI 3-3 Its management includes monitoring indicators and monthly reporting to the committees that support Sicredipar's Board of Directors in deliberations related to policies and guidelines. risk management and prudential limits to be observed. GRI 3-3 The Board has the support of the Risks and Compliance Committee to identify risks and opportunities related to the topics discussed. STRESS TESTS To assess potential impacts of adverse events on the business, we developed a Stress Testing Program. SASB FN-CB-550 a.2 The methodologies used in stress tests must be compatible with the risk management needs of each institution. The stress testing program of all institutions in the System must use, at a minimum, the methodologies and procedures required for their respective segment. Program methodologies and procedures must ensure the use of appropriately severe adverse assumptions and parameters. Stress tests must be carried out in an integrated manner for all risks, evaluating the impact of significant concentrations of risks. This way, we guarantee that the impacts on capital and liquidity are assessed considering the adverse events foreseen in the Program. Each institution's Stress Testing Program is submitted for approval to the respective Board of Directors. The results of the Stress Test Program for cooperatives, central offices and the Bank's Prudential Conglomerate are assessed by the Risk Committee of SicrediPar and Banco, as well as by the Executive Board, through its advisory forum, the Technical Committee for Scratchs. SASB FN-CB-55 0a.2 124 125 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT 125Social, environmental and climate risk As a cooperative financial institution, financing activities in sectors exposed to social, environmental and climate impacts may generate financial losses and damage to our reputation. Therefore, we have detailed mechanisms to mitigate the risks of these operations, as well as assess their impacts on the business and the communities in which we operate. GRI 3-3 To boost our socio-environmental management, we rely on the Socio-Environmental Risk Management Policy, revised in 2022, in compliance with new Resolutions 4,945 and 4,943 of the Central Bank of Brazil. GRI FS1 The policy establishes the guidelines for managing socio-environmental risks in all entities of the System, in order to prevent financial, legal or reputational losses arising from social, environmental or climatic. GRI 2-23 | FS1 We also have a Socio-Environmental Risk Management Standard, which establishes the guidelines and consolidates the rules applicable to associates whose activities are exposed to social, environmental or climate risks and have relevant proportionality in our portfolio. GRI 2-23 | FS1 The procedures established in both documents guide the stages of the credit cycle, as well as the creation and maintenance of our financial services, and are guided by the principles established by the Central Bank. GRI 2-23 | FS1 Throughout the year, we evolved in identifying socio-environmental opportunities in our portfolio, reinforcing processes, metrics and consolidating interactions with business partners. In 2022, we participated in the structuring of strategies and tools to support the expansion of operations in sustainable finance, in line with market demands. Furthermore, we advanced in the actions identified throughout 2021, to expanding the scope of socio-environmental risk management, FIND OUT OUR SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY AT: https://www.sicredi.com.br/media/produtos/filer_public/2023/02/15/ politica_de_gerenciamento_de_riscos_sociais_ambientais_e_climaticos.pdfManagement practices of social, environmental and climate risks All of our credit, consortium and exchange contracts have a socio-environmental responsibility clause, with provisions for fines and early settlement of operations due to non-compliance with contractual items that establish socio-environmental commitments. GRI FS3   The assessment and decision on cases of early settlement is carried out by the board of directors of the respective cooperative, through monitoring provided by the centralized Socio-Environmental Risk management area. GRI 3-3 | FS3 The assessment of socio-environmental risks is present at various stages of the credit cycle, from opening of the account, at which time initial checks are made based on the delimited and prohibited activities, in accordance with the Socio-Environmental Risk Management Standard. FN-C B-410a. 2considering actions agreed with multilateral partners. GRI FS5 Demonstrating the increasing importance of the topic, we carried out several reports, technical discussions and cooperation agreements with business partners, such as with IDB Invest, the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), the Société de Promotion et de Participation pour la Coopération Economique (PROPARCO) and the European Investment Bank (EIB). In these dialogues, we share data, analysis and advances in socio-environmental risk management procedures, in addition to making new commitments with plans and actions to improve internal processes related to the topic. Among these agreements is our commitment to adopting reporting standards, in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). GRI FS5 126 127 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SELF-DECLARATION QUESTIONNARIES In our credit granting process, we apply self-declaratory questionnaires to associates whose activities have greater exposure to socio-environmental risks, functioning as a signal of possible problems or irregularities. From this, a qualitative evaluation of the document is carried out, supporting decision-making for concessions to this member. In line with the social, environmental and climate agenda, in 2022 we expanded the implementation of questionnaires for granting credit to legal entities in the mining sector. Thus, throughout the year we had 58,009 questionnaires in force, of which 56.52% were applied to legal entity (PJ) members, a number significantly higher than the previous year. GRI FS10 PROHIBITED AND DELIMITED ACTIVITIES As described in the internal Socio-Environmental Risk Management Standard, we have established criteria for the composition of the System's credit portfolio, delimiting or prohibiting certain activities with greater exposure to socio-environmental risk. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 In the granting process, we carry out a systemic blockade that prevents the release of credit to members (and their respective economic groups) registered in the Register of employers who subjected workers to conditions analogous to slavery, published by the Ministry of Labor”. We also carry out additional checks to assess involvement in non-recommended activities such as the extraction or sale of wood from illegal native forests, for example. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 SCREENING We evaluate the requested credit proposals and the areas to be benefited, if any, by through documentation and elements that support our decision. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 We carry out systemic blocking of products with greater exposure to socio-environmental risk for members and their respective economic groups included in the official lists of environmental embargoes published by the Brazilian Institute of the Environment (IBAMA) and the Chico Mendes Institute of Preservation of Biodiversity (ICMBio). GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 These cases are subjected to a specialized assessment, which can generate an opinion for the continuity of the flow of credit granting in situations in which the area to be benefited is not the location subject to the embargo and in which socio-environmental risks are mitigated, observing the reservations and conditions deemed necessary. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 The member remains blocked while on the official lists and this screening is carried out with each new request for a product with greater exposure to socio-environmental risk. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 In 2022, we carried out 693 screenings, 13.28% of which were carried out on legal entity (PJ) members. GRI FS10 Find out below about the social, environmental and climate risk management practices adopted in our operations: GEOPROCESSING We use geoprocessing systems to assess the areas of greatest socio-environmental risk in our rural credit operations, online with the mandatory capture and sending of coordinates established by the Central Bank. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 Based on the geodetic coordinates of the area to benefit from financing, as well as those accepted as collateral, we automatically validate whether there is an overlap with risk areas officially disclosed by the responsible supervisory bodies. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 In this pre-grant validation, a “restriction” message is issued when overlaps with Environmental Preservation Areas and Areas of Relevant Ecological Interest are identified, or a “prohibition” message when overlaps with indigenous lands, quilombola lands, embargoed areas or full-use conservation units are identified. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 Furthermore, we validate and prohibit cases of rural credit in which the Rural Environmental Registry (CAR) of the property is inserted in the Amazon Biome and has overlap with environmental embargoes. In these prohibitive situations, continuity of financing is prevented. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 | FN-CB-410a.2 POST-CONCESSION MONITORING After the concession, the benefited areas continue to be monitored throughout the useful life of the operation, in order to verify their regularity. This initiative expanded the scope of our processes, establishing a new level of mitigation of socio-environmental risks, limiting damage and exposure unwanted in areas of greater risk. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 RISK APPETITE MONITORING (RAS) AND PERFORMING STRESS TESTS We establish metrics and monitor our concessions and our credit portfolio, at a regional and systemic level, in order to monitor and limit our exposure to risks. In addition, we carry out stress tests in which we simulate scenarios of exposure to different types of risks to understand how they interact with each other. themselves and can impact our main indicators. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 QUANTITATIVE TOOLS FOR MANAGING PORTFOLIO RISKS In 2022, we continue to improve quantitative management tools based on mechanisms that measure aspects related to the social, environmental and climate risks of the portfolio and counterparties, allowing their classification and analysis. For the next year, in line with data-driven decision guidance, we will aim to development, improvement and application of new quantitative methodologies that allow the management of these risks to evolve. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 INTERLOCUTION WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCIES AND BUSINESS PARTNERS We continue to expand dialogue with environmental bodies through integration actions, aiming to disseminate regularization, awareness and risk mitigation practices. Likewise, we made commitments to develop risk processes socio-environmental issues with multilateral organizations, in which we carry out periodic reports. Furthermore, in 2022, we strengthened our relationship with new business partners, as well as progressing in the standardization of information for measurement and reporting to the market. GRI FS 2 | FN-CB-410a.1 128 129 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENTAssessment of social, environmental and climate risk management Since 2016, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), our business partner, carries out annual supervision of the process through the Universal Banks Report, just as IDB Invest and Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG) have been carrying out in recent years through the Annual E&S Performance Report. GRI FS9 Furthermore, periodically, the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban), through its Compliance Report and specific questionnaires, also monitors compliance with SARB14 self-regulation and Central Bank resolutions. GRI FS9 In 2022, stakeholder Rabo Partnerships conducted a process of assessing the organization's conformity, evaluating the structure, policies and standard compliance procedures, as well as mitigating socio-environmental risks, considering the strategies, processes and regulations that encompass the theme. GRI FS9The Central Bank of Brazil continued to periodically evaluate the implementation of regulations and the application of practices socio-environmental risks, increasing the emphasis on aspects of social, environmental and climate risks, throughout 2022. GRI FS9 Training in social, environmental and climate risks Among the training carried out focusing on the topic during the year, we highlight the online training on Risks and Socio-environmental Opportunities, mandatory for all System employees, 93.25%, which totaled 36,923 participants in 2022. GRI 3-3 | Sicredi SR07 In the internal reinforcement of processes, we had 1,045 participations from multipliers in the centers and cooperatives, with the aim of disseminating and improving the practices adopted. The centralized Socio-Environmental Risk management team has intensified its specializations on the topic through courses, participation in lectures, congresses, forums, workshops and working groups with other financial institutions, aiming at qualification and exchange of experiences. GRI FS4Identification and mitigation of climate risks According to the definitions of the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), climate risk is divided into two main categories: • Transition risks: the possibility of financial or reputational losses occurring in the move towards a low-carbon economy, through environmental policies or strategies; • Physical risks: the possibility of losses due to climate change generated by environmental degradation, such as deforestation, soil degradation and pollution, or meteorological phenomena, such as the acceleration of global warming, which can cause damage to property, productivity and production of value chains. GRI 201-2 In this sense, we always seek to evolve in the identification of impact factors, to define methodologies and strategies aligned with the sustainability of the business. Throughout 2022, we continued to participate in the discussions of the working group of the Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban), aimed at supporting institutions on the topic. Among the techniques discussed at the forum and which are already being applied in internal surveys and analyzes is the Climate Risk Sensitivity Ruler, a methodology that aims to identify exposure to climate risk in the agriculture and livestock portfolios of financial institutions, based on the recommendations of the TCFD. GRI 201-2 Furthermore, through the Green Taxonomy, a methodology also developed by Febraban to portfolio classification, we monitor and report, to cooperatives and centers, the portfolio's exposure to climate change, according to the activity of our members. This sectoral exposure variable to climate risks is also reported in our credit treadmill analysis report and is considered in the modeling to measure socio-environmental risk. GRI 201-2 Furthermore, seeking to guarantee legal certainty on the topic, we introduced into our standard clause socio-environmental responsibility the item of climate change, highlighting the importance of adopting control practices and compliance with applicable legislation. Furthermore, we are developing a stress test to evaluate different climate risk scenarios for the institution, allowing a quantitative measurement of these implications, complementing that already applied to socio-environmental risk. GRI 201-2 In 2023, we will remain active in discussions on the topic, improving our geoprocessing tools, carrying out new studies and searching for new sources of data to support and support our mitigation processes, as well as identifying opportunities related to aspects of climate risks. GRI 201-2 130 131 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENTEngaging suppliers in a sustainable wayWorking with suppliers and partners with sustainable management To expand our positive impact, We extend our concerns and advances regarding sustainability to the systemic supply chain, encouraging them to adopt the best social and environmental practices. GRI 3-3 This relationship is guided by the Internal Corporate Purchasing Standard, which guides the hiring and management of suppliers that will be used by the System. The guideline indicates that suppliers should preferably be associated with one of our cooperatives, in order to generate more value to the our business chain. We also prioritize suppliers from the communities where we are present, as part of the strategy to contribute to local development. GRI 3-3 During the year, we hired 109,788 active suppliers, with whom we spent R$7.4 billion. GRI 3-3 Our main suppliers deliver everything from corporate supplies to more complex service and technology solutions, located throughout the country. The main suppliers responsible for Threshold solutions to the process are based in the South, Southeast and North regions. GRI 2-6At the Sicredi Administrative Center (CAS), we include a standard clause relating to sustainability as a model in our contracts, through which suppliers commit to acting responsibly. We also recommend the inclusion of anti-corruption, human rights and environmental clauses in cooperative contracts, addressing issues such as child and slave labor. GRI 308-2 During the year, we had 250 new contracts that were subjected to environmental impact assessment. Of these, 82% had a sustainability clause included. GRI 308-1 | 414-1 For suppliers that undergo Council deliberation, we carry out a socio-environmental analysis based on a form completed by the supplier. GRI 308-2 In 2022, we began the process of creating the Sustainability Guidelines – Sustainable Management of Suppliers and Partners, which have the objective of deepening the directions that make up the Sustainability Policy, guiding the Sicredi System towards best practices on the subject. The Guidelines are guiding and systemic. GRI 308-2PROMOTE ECO-EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT Promote eco-efficient managementTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE CONSERVATION OF SPRINGS IN RURAL PROPERTIES Through a partnership with the Riograndense Association of Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Enterprises (Emater/RS), the cooperative Sicredi Serrana and the cooperative Sicredi Pioneira, from Central Sicredi Sul/Southeast, offer technical assistance and support to rural owners for the conservation of springs and the environment. Within the scope of Sicredi Serrana, in the first year water capture systems, protection of springs and restoration of permanent preservation areas (APPs) were built in 23 rural properties in municipalities in the regions of Caxias do Sul and Lajeado. For the next two years, another 115 properties will benefit. In the region covered by Sicredi Pioneira, where the project began in October, 66 springs will be restored or preserved on 66 rural properties. Of this amount, 11 are APPs, called URs – Reference Units, one in each municipality, with in-depth preservation and restoration work. Upon completion, each UR will be suitable for visitation, educational and awareness-raising purposes. In the remaining 55 properties, the focus of work will be the preservation of the springs. At the end of the projects, the areas will be available for visitation, for educational and awareness-raising purposes. The projects last three years and the cooperatives pay 70% of the total value, with 30% given in return by the rural producer. We see Eco-efficient Management as one that aims for maximum efficiency in the use of material and natural resources, with the minimum of adverse impact on the environment and generating positive. Furthermore, we understand that eco-efficient management does not only apply to our direct operations, but also to our value chain. GRI 3-3 With this objective, we have several systemic and local eco-efficiency initiatives, which have been advancing over time. Systemic initiatives are represented by the Emissions and Climate Change Management Front, which includes the Measurement of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions, in addition to the annual Neutralization of 100% of emissions calculated in the Inventory and emission reduction actions. (Learn more on page 136). Among the local eco-efficiency initiatives developed by cooperatives, we can mention units with sustainable construction attributes, conservation and recovery projects for springs, solid waste reduction and energy efficiency actions. 132 133 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ACTING WITH SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS WITH SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENTSystem Eco-Efficiency Program Sicredi Throughout 2022, we worked on structuring our Eco-efficiency Program, which aims to contextualize the topic within our Sustainability Strategy and align with the entire System how we put eco-efficient management into practice. The Program also aims to systematize what we already do and identify new opportunities to advance further. Sicredi's Eco-efficiency Program is structured into two main fronts: ECO-EFFICIENT OPERATION: Seeks to explore opportunities to make our processes and operations even more efficient from an economic and environmental point of view, covering the topics of solid waste management, sustainable constructions and operational processes. EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT: It aims to expand our contribution to a positive agenda of action against global climate change, at the same time that we collaborate with the development of the regions where we are present, taking into account the themes of measurement, neutralization and reduction of emissions. LEED RECERTIFICATION In 2022, we received LEED recertification for the Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS) building, located in Porto Alegre. The structure obtained a final score of 88 points, winning first place among 12 certified buildings in Brazil in 2022 in the Operation and Maintenance category. LEED – Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design is a international certification for sustainable constructions. CAS is the only building in Rio Grande do Sul certified in the “LEED – operation and maintenance of existing buildings” category. Emissions and Climate Change Management We understand that the main challenges of our Eco-efficiency Program are related to the Emissions and Climate Change Management front, considering that this is a highly relevant topic for the financial sector, which plays a crucial role in help the world transition to a low-carbon economy. In a planetary context in which companies and organizations will increasingly need to revisit their forms of production and services, financial institutions will be able to contribute, THE PAGE CAN BE ACCESSED VIA THE LINK: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site / about-us/sustainability/climate-changes/through its operations, so that low-carbon projects and activities are made viable. To centralize our communication and systematize the financial and non-financial solutions we develop in relation to this topic, in 2022 we launched the Sicredi Climate Change page, in which we address our different initiatives that contribute to action against global climate change. 134 135 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING ECO-EFFICIENT MANAGEMENTMEASUREMENT OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS As a way of increasingly contributing to the agenda to combat climate change, We measure our carbon emissions annually through the systemic Emissions Inventory. The inventory provides a snapshot of the emissions of all our cooperatives and CAS, and allows us to develop strategies to reduce or neutralize the impact of our operations in terms of climate change. Our Inventory is calculated according to the methodology of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, covering scopes 1, 2 and 3 and being recognized with the Gold Seal, the highest level of qualification for corporate carbon inventories. SCOPE 1: These are our direct emissions, such as those arising from gases from the air conditioning systems used in our structures. SCOPE 2: These are emissions related to the purchase of electricity from our operation. SCOPE 3: These are indirect emissions, but which are necessary for our operations, such as, for example, those related to the transport of cash and business trips. We understand the need to expand the scope of Scope 3 of our Inventory, including measuring emissions from our financed activities. With this objective, we started mapping to evolve in the measurement of financed emissions throughout 2023, which will give us more inputs to help our members with the challenges of the climate agenda. WE ARE PARTICIPANTS IN THE BRAZILIAN GHG PROTOCOL PROGRAM, AND OUR INVENTORIES CAN BE ACCESSED ON THE PUBLIC EMISSIONS REGISTRY PLATFORM: https://registropublicodeemissoes. fgv.br/participantes/3026 TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG) GRI 305-1| 305-2 | 305-3 | 305-4 | Sicredi SR06 SOURCE OF EMISSIONS TOTAL EMISSIONS (tCO2e) PERCENTAGE* Scope 1 8,878.35 31% Fugitive 6,678.30 24% Direct Mobile Combustion 1,928.32 7% Stationary Combustion 253.99 1% Effluents 17.74 <1% Scope 2 - ( location approach) 3,707.93 - Scope 2 - (purchasing choice approach) 3,474.16 12% Scope 3 16,016.04 56% Business travel 6,220.87 22% Transport and distribution (upstream) 8,565.79 30% Employee displacement 170.90 1% Waste generated in operations 1,057.60 4% Waste Transport** 0.88 <1% Total (tCO2e) (approach of purchase choice)***28,368.55 100% Total (tCO2e) (location approach) 28,602.31 - Emissions Intensity (tCO2e /employee)**** 0.73 - * The percentages were calculated based on total emissions following the purchasing choice approach in Scope 2. Therefore, we do not report the percentages referring to Scope 2 according to the location approach. ** Category “Scope 3 emissions not classifiable in categories 1 to 15”. Includes the transportation of CAS waste, not accounted for in previous years. *** The purchasing choice approach takes into account the purchase of renewable energy certificates (I-RECs) by the CAS. **** Calculated following the energy purchasing choice approach. 136 137 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING MANAGEMENT ECO-EFFICIENTCarbon neutralization Sicredi SR03 Since 2020, we have had the premise of annually compensating all greenhouse gas emissions measured in our Systemic Inventory, through the purchase of carbon credits. In 2022 we evolved our strategy: in addition to neutralizing the emissions calculated in the 2021 Inventory, we advanced the compensation of emissions projected for the entire year 2022. To this end, we supported six carbon credit projects located in different regions of Brazil, totaling more than 45 thousand tons of carbon neutralized. We use as selection criteria audited, certified projects with strict quality standards, which result in positive impacts in the social, environmental and economic spheres and contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in addition to being representative of our regions. performance. Reduction Actions In terms of reducing emissions, several of our production units service, our agencies and administrative headquarters of cooperatives and also the CAS have self-generation of renewable energy. In 2022, we had more than 500 units with self-generation of photovoltaic energy, which saved 574 tons of carbon. Furthermore, the purchase of energy from renewable sources2 from the incentivized market carried out by CAS resulted in 234 tons of carbon reduction in 2022. 2 Renewable sources: wind and solar plants, small plants hydroelectric plants, biomass and biogas plants. In 2022 we also evolved the scope of our Emissions Inventory, starting to measure the emissions avoided from the release of resources to finance photovoltaic energy generation projects. We calculate that, through the release of these resources, the emissions of 35,352 tons of carbon from our members were avoided in 2022. As members of the UN Global Compact, committed to complying with its guidelines and the Sustainable Development Goals, we seek to align our systemic emissions reduction strategy with best international practices. FIND OUT ABOUT THE PROJECTS ON THE WEBSITE: https://www.sicredi.com.br/site/sobre-nos/sistema/ changed-climaticas/projetos/Usina Solar em Mato Grosso In 2022, Central Sicredi Norte began operating a plant Solar in Nova Xavantina (MT), which supplies all Central cooperatives located in Mato Grosso, with the exception of the cooperative Sicredi Araxingu, which has solar self-generation installed in its branches. With an investment of more than R$30 million, the plant operates with 18 thousand photovoltaic panels, with a capacity to generate 5 megawatts (MW) of energy. The estimate is that electricity bills will be reduced by 95%, generating annual savings of approximately R$12 million. The use of renewable energy, generated by the plant, has the potential to avoid the emission of more than 24 thousand tons of carbon in the atmosphere over the next 25 years, contributing to the decarbonization of our energy matrix, thus contributing to the reduction of emissions at a national level. 138 139 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING ECO-EFFICIENT MANAGEMENTmunicipalities where we are the only financial institution in the employee confidence index in Social Investment 217 89% R$301.3     million 4th place as the best company to work with children and adolescents impacted by programs of education04 Local development FOSTER THE LOCAL ECONOMY _____________________________ 142 PROMOTE FINANCIAL INCLUSION _______________________ 146 PROMOTE THE DEVELOPMENT OF PEOPLE _____________ 150 CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES _________________________________________ 163Promote positive transformations in the locations where we are present +500      thousand related SDGs: 140The presence of a cooperative in a community generates income and prosperity for its inhabitants. Our cooperatives promote the local economy by expanding access to financial services for the local population, supporting the development of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in addition to distributing results among members. We also prioritize hiring local suppliers and encourage business among associates. GRI 3-3 Due to our cooperative nature, resources raised in one location are invested in credit to other members in the same location, creating a virtuous cycle that encourages investment in the cooperative, the inclusion of a greater number of people in the financial system and the strengthening of our members' businesses. GRI 3-3 In addition, we have lines of credit aimed at the development of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in addition to financing family farming, which has high power to generate income and develop communities. Credit for MEI, Micro and Small Entrepreneurs: By supporting the development of MEIs, Micro and Small Entrepreneurs, we generate income and contribute to the prosperity of communities. Among the products we make available for this purpose is credit granted through the National Support Program for Micro and Small Businesses (PRONAMPE) and the Emergency Credit Access Program. (Learn more on page 106). In 2022, we made 40,949 operations available for programs allocated to MEI’s, micro, small and medium-sized companies, totaling R$3.1 billion. SASB FN -CB-240a .1  Credit for family farming Credit for family farming is an important sustainability instrument, as it contributes to income generation and social development of communities. At the same time, the segment is one of the main responsible for food production in Brazil and the world, having potential for implementing sustainable management in production, with a view to reducing environmental impacts. Sustainable Development Hackathon Sicredi Ouro Verde MT, from Central Sicredi Centro Norte, hosted the Sicredi Sustainable Development Hackathon, at its Administrative Headquarters, in Lucas do Rio Verde (MT). The Hackathon is a programming marathon (Hack + Marathon), which aims to find solutions for the municipality of Lucas do Rio Verde. This is an unprecedented initiative by the cooperative, which had the support from Inova LaSalle, UniLasalle Lucas and Agrihub de Cuiabá-MT. The competition featured 52 uninterrupted hours of activities. The first place winners received a cash prize, in addition to mentoring to incubate ideas. The event aimed to give visibility to the municipality of Lucas do Rio Verde, as well as provide opportunities and promote local development. FIND OUT MORE AT: donasdonegociosicredi. com.br Promote the local economy Donas do Negócio Program To promote the female entrepreneurship, the cooperative Sicredi União MS/TO e Oeste da Bahia, from Central Sicredi Brasil Central, develops Donas do Negócio, a portfolio aimed at women who seek to become protagonists in their businesses and careers. Running for more than two years, the program aims to help entrepreneurs gain space in the market, promoting autonomy and independence. Furthermore, it helps these young women remain in the field, encouraging local development. The initiative is based on our essence, transforming communities and people through the generation of jobs and income. The Donas do Negócio Program has a value proposition organized into two aspects: the offer of financial products, which are part of the cooperative's portfolio of solutions, and the granting of engagement products, through a curation of entrepreneurship and management content business, training on topics that strengthen entrepreneurial skills and events to expand networking, in addition to recording testimonials from members that serve as inspiration for new participants starting on the program's path. 142 143 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 FOSTERING THE LOCAL ECONOMYDemonstration of Added Value – DVALocal suppliers We seek to prioritize hiring suppliers from the communities where we are present, supporting local commerce, stimulating income generation and contributing to improving the quality of life of the entire community. In 2022, the total spent on local suppliers was R$2.5 billion, representing 33% of our spending on suppliers in the year and 61% of products and services, amounts that directly feed the local economy. GRI 3-3 | 204-1 Distribution of results * This is the value of savings generated by the use of our credit products in relation to the products of other financial institutions, as a result of comparison between our portfolio rates and the average market rate provided by BACEN for the same product. Regional Business Center We have established a nucleus aimed at supporting and advising centers and cooperatives in identifying new business opportunities to boost the local economy, through partnerships and complementing the offer of financial and non-financial solutions, strengthening the platform model. In 2022, a total of R$ was distributed 2.16 billion, of which R$1.16 billion comes from the decision of the members at the meeting and R$1 billion in interest payments to the capital. Sicredi DL02In 2022, we had a total of R$40.9 billion in added value for society. We thus contribute to achieving our purpose of building a more prosperous society together, through the generation of economic, social and environmental value for our associates, collaborators, suppliers, partners and the communities where we are located. inserted.As a credit cooperative, at the end of each year we record the operating result, and subsequently the distribution of results, which is presented and voted on by members at the General Assembly. The distribution is carried out fairly, taking as a reference the financial transactions carried out by the member throughout the year. 2022 Direct economic value generated - revenue 32,652,309 (+) *Total savings on Sicredi x Mercado fees (Commercial Credit without check and AD) 8,287,574 (=) TOTAL 40,939,883* Direct economic value generated less economic value distributed. STATEMENT OF VALUE ADDED (DVA) (R$ THOUSANDS) GRI 3-3 | 201-1 Through the Value Added Statement, we report the operational results of our business model. 2020 2021 2022 Economic value generated (revenues) 13,714,352 18,413,759 32,652,309 Economic value distributed 10,581,438 13,910,189 27,667,999 Operating costs 6,624,848 8,864,740 20,643. 208 Salaries and benefits employees 2,905,813 3,806,847 4,868,924 Payments to capital providers 246,116 338,031 1,003,476 Payments to government 793,935 893,353 1,138,632 Community investments 10,726 7,218 13,759 ECONOMIC VALUE THE RETAINED* 3,132,914 4,503,570 4,984,310 ADDED VALUE TO SOCIETY (R$ THOUSANDS) 144 145 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022 FOSTERING THE LOCAL ECONOMYFinancial inclusion We are made up of a network of cooperatives present in all regions of the country, from large metropolises to small and rural municipalities. We operate in cities where other financial institutions are not usually present, bringing financial products and services to a population that would otherwise not have access. We thus promote the financial inclusion of individuals and legal entities, inserting them into the national financial system, guaranteeing their economic participation, adding income and contributing to improving their quality of life. GRI 3-3 | 203-2Local development does part of our cooperative nature, and we take our financial services to more rural, more distant communities, with a lower GDP and smaller population than other financial institutions. MUNICIPALITIES WHERE WE ARE THE ONLY FINANCIAL INSTITUTION PRESENT  GRI 3-3 | Sicredi DL01 NUMBER OF INHABITANTS 2020 2021 2022 Up to 5 thousand 162 167 155 From 5 to 20 thousand 54 63 61 Over 20 thousand 0 0 1 TOTAL 216 230 217* TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF SERVICE POINTS IN CLASSIFIED MUNICIPALITIES HOW NEEDY GRI 3-3 | FS13 NUMBER OF INHABITANTSNUMBER OF MUNICIPALITIES IN BRAZILNUMBER OF MUNICIPALITIES WITH THE PRESENCE OF SICREDIPENTUALNUMBER OF AGENCIES Up to 5 thousand 524 57 10.88 57 From 5 to 20 thousand 1,124 74 6.58 75 TOTAL 1,648 131 7.94 13 2 * The calculation includes bank branches and cooperative service stations. Promote financial inclusion To understand and measure how we generate value in the locations where we are present, in recent years we have carried out a series of studies to understand the penetration and value generation of credit cooperatives. GRI 203-2 The study “Benefits of Credit Cooperatives”, carried out in 2021, evaluated the performance of different banking institutions in the country and showed that credit cooperatives have a relevant role in providing access to complete financial services to the population of municipalities that are considered less attractive for maintaining branches of traditional financial institutions. GRI 203-2Em 2022, we had cooperatives in 217 municipalities where we were the only financial institution*. Our presence generates a positive impact in these places, in addition to promoting the local economy. Sicredi DL01 * The decrease in 2022 is due to other institutions having arrived in the municipalities where we were already present. 146 147 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING FINANCIAL INCLUSIONCredit recovery OVERDUE AND DEFAULT LOANS DEDICATED TO SMALL BUSINESSES AND DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES – IN R$ BILLION SASB FN-CB- 240a .2 2022 Number 114,090 Value R$ 1,593 FINANCIAL MARKET TRAINING PROGRAM Aiming at the empowerment and inclusion of minority groups in the job market, Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ implemented the Financial Market Training Program, with FBB 510 certification. The project is structured into an educational program with more than 140 hours of content, covering topics related to the principles of Cooperativism, the Financial Market and Financial Education, in addition to behavioral skills. The initiative focused on black people, immigrants, women, people belonging to the LGBTQIAP+ community, people over 50 years old, residents of needy areas, people with disabilities and other groups of interest to the cooperatives. In 2022, 19 people participated in the Program. We have a centralized credit recovery structure with the strategic objective of recovering values ​​and associates, through solutions sustainable in the extrajudicial and judicial collection stages, for entities linked to the System. In 2022, we had three credit recovery campaigns demonstrating our support in rescuing the financial health of our members. In this way, more flexible negotiation conditions were made available to adapt to payment capacity, which saw a growth of 42% compared to 2021 (campaign periods). R$155 million were recovered in credit, credit card and current account. We provide our associates with another negotiation channel that allows for greater privacy and convenience in resolving disputes, WhatsApp. We had 25% engagement (returns via WhatsApp) from the public impacted by this action. *The information refers to the Microcredit product (number of operations and default balance). 148 149 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING FINANCIAL INCLUSIONDevelopment of employees NUMBER OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS GRI 2-7 2020 2021 2022 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Fixed term*225 382 689 1,204 1,704 2,391 Indefinite term12,109 17,114 13,305 18,929 14.6 86 21,583 Total by gender 12,334 17,496 13,994 20,133 16,390 23,974 TOTAL 29,830 34,127 40,364 NUMBER OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS PER CENTRAL GRI 2-7 2020 2021 2022 Central Sicredi South/Southeast 10,410 11,854 13,911 Central Sicredi PR/SP/RJ 9,625 10,681 12,265 Central Sicredi Centro North 3,586 4,455 5,640 Central Sicredi Brasil Central 2,360 2,812 3,239 Central Sicredi North/Northeast 1,518 1,682 1,971 Centro Administrativo Sicredi (CAS) 2,320 2,643 3,338 SicrediPar** 11 10 11 TOTAL 29,830 34,127 40,364 Promote the development of People * We consider those contracts as fixed-term for a fixed period (young apprentices, interns and statutory employees). ** We do not count SicrediPar employees in the total value, as they have already been accounted for in the Central.We believe that, by investing in the continuous learning process of our employees, we expand the ability to generate value for associates and their communities. Therefore, during 2022, we evolved our corporate education strategy, establishing a new learning culture based on the ecosystem concept. GRI 3-3 This change adds a dynamic component to the learning process, as it diversifies and encourages new ways of learning and sharing knowledge. With this evolution, our learning strategy demonstrates that we are attentive to the ways in which knowledge and information are produced, made available and accessed. GRI 3-3 Our Learning Ecosystem is made up of three pillars, which respect and preserve the autonomy of the entities that make up the System, in addition to enhancing the learning of our different audiences, whether internal or external, aligned with the execution of our strategy and to the inspirational 2030. PILLARS OF THE LEARNING ECOSYSTEM SICREDI COMPETENCIES To maintain the alignment of our culture, we have a catalog of 15 competencies that describe the desired behaviors and guide our employee selection, development and recognition processes. They are fundamental to connecting us to our purpose and showing that change is necessary, while maintaining our cooperative essence. Sicredi RC09 Two of these competencies were indicated as essential for the entire System. They are: “Cooperative essence” and “Understand to serve”. The remaining competencies are the free choice of each cooperative. Sicredi RC09 150 151 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING PEOPLE DEVELOPMENTLearning Culture We seek to develop a Learning Culture that generates an environment that encourages autonomy and the exchange of learning among employees, both in formal and informal environments, fostering the growth of each person and the organization as a whole. This culture is built through values, which must be communicated to direct the attitudes and behaviors we want to see in the different audiences involved with our learning initiatives. The values ​​of our learning culture are: • Essência Sicredi; • Learner Centrality; • Autonomy and Protagonism; • Human Learning Context; • 360º learning; • Network Learning; • Innovability. Learning Architecture The design of the Learning Architecture aims to facilitate connections between initiatives, bringing a systemic view of actions and supporting the construction and distribution process with the aim of improving your experience. Learning Architecture ensures the link between business needs and training initiatives, allowing employees to have a better view of the paths and purposes of initiatives, increasing their engagement and autonomy. The thematic axes of our Learning Ecosystem are: • Cooperative Identity; • Skills and Transformation; • Relationship and Business; • Tools, technologies and methods; • Leadership; • Regulatory; • Governance*. * This axis will be made available in 2023. Ecosystem management Learning Ecosystem Management aims to direct Corporate Learning strategies and support the sustainability of Ecosystem Model. It is made up of mechanisms, processes and relationships that direct learning and determine responsibilities and priorities, driving decision-making. Through cooperation, we gain in scale and simultaneously maintain the advantages of unit independence and the maintenance of some centralized activities. 152 153 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING PEOPLE DEVELOPMENTSicredi Aprendis To ensure a quality experience effective learning, we use the Sicredi Aprendi platform, through which we manage and make available our Corporate Learning programs and initiatives, which can take the form of online content, as well as synchronous and in-person training. In 2022, with the aim of enhancing our Ecosystem model, we revitalized the platform, placed the learner at the center and adapted the employee's entire learning journey. Accessibility: Compliant With our values ​​of promoting Inclusion, Diversity and Equity, we modernized the platform through the implementation of two accessibility tools. Sicredi Aprendi now has the Website Reader feature, a tool that has text reading functions aloud, and Hand Talk, which translates content into Brazilian Sign Language (Libras) with the help of the virtual translator, the Hugo.To continue evolving our platform, promoting an even more Better yet, we carried out research into the usability of Sicredi Aprendi. As a result, we saw that 90.5% of respondents are satisfied with the improvements implemented. During the year, we provided 4,097 training courses to our employees. As a result, in 2022, 38,179 employees will undergo training, an average of 29 hours of training per employee, with an investment of around R$46.8 million. GRI 401-1 | Sicredi DL13 | DL14 | DL15 | DL17AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE REGARDING GENDER GRI 3-3 2020 2021 2022 Men 23 30 28 Women 25 30 30 TOTAL 24 30 29 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE IN FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY (QUANTITY) GRI 404-1 | GRI 3-3 2020 2021 2022 Elected 8 6 19 Senior Leadership 14 14 18 Middle Leadership 27 30 27 Professionals 25 31 30 Technicians 10 27 25 Interns 16 26 29 Young Apprentice 9 20 20 TOTAL 24 30 29 AVERAGE HO TRAINING RAS PER EMPLOYEE PER ETHNIC/RACIAL PROFILE GRI 3-3 | Sicredi DL16 PROFILE ETHNICOMEDY OF TRAINING HOURS 2021 2022 White 30 28 Black and Brown 30 34.5 Not informed 30 – Yellow 36 31 Indigenous 28 12 TOTAL – – 154 155 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTE THE DEVELOPMENT OF PEOPLEIntegration of new employees The integration process aims to receive , introduce and acculturate the new employee to the organizational environment, presenting cooperativism, our skills and our culture. GRI 404-2 To support this process, we count on the initiatives: Welcome to Sicredi Trilha where knowledge about Sicredi, its structure and culture is made available. All content of this track is available on Sicredi Aprendi. GRI 404-2 Welcome to the agency This path is the first step for employees who are starting to work at our agencies and who need to develop what sets us apart: building relationships. It contains various contents with introductory concepts and fundamental for these professionals who will experience the day-to-day life of the agency. GRI 404-2Systemic learning initiatives The systemic initiatives that make up Corporate Learning take into account the employee's level of knowledge in relation to the organization and the role to be performed, in addition to content for free consumption, which encourages protagonism and autonomy in relation to your career development. Below we list some highlights:Advanced governance program Faced with an increasingly complex and constantly changing environment, we are invited to look at Corporate Governance from our perspectives. To support us in this transformation process, the Advanced Governance Program (PAG) was developed, with the aim of providing opportunities for discussions about dilemmas in the decision-making process experienced daily by executives and the board when making the commitment to take care of the longevity of the business. In the edition of the Program conducted throughout 2022, in partnership with ISE Business School, 27 Sicredi directors participated: SicrediPar advisors and executive directors of CAS and Centrals, in a program that covers topics related to strategy, governance, people and business. Share-E Share-E is one of the initiatives that aims to foster a learning culture and enhance one of our values: Network Learning. The goal It’s about connecting the best we have and the wealth of knowledge and practices carried out by our employees. It is a product designed to be executed organically by employees and has a free theme.Welcome manager Professionals who are taking on a leadership position, or who wish to recycle their knowledge, have the “Welcome Manager” track at their disposal. It contains a variety of content connected to current business transformation challenges, which reinforce their management responsibilities and their role, enabling them to act strategically with a focus on people, processes and results. GRI 404-2 Jeito Sicredi de Ser: In-person training that consists of diving into the world of cooperativism and our culture through the Jeito Sicredi de Ser Workshop and Jogo do Jeito. In them, the employee is introduced to the content of the four axes of our competencies (Cooperativeness, Business, People, Transformation). GRI 404-2 Ignite As an important stage in our evolution process as a Learning Ecosystem, in 2022 we started Ignite, a program that aims to prepare and integrate People Management professionals into the learning culture based on the ecosystem concept. Throughout the meetings, participants had the opportunity to delve into the values ​​of our learning culture and explore ways of putting them into practice. 156 157 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTE PERSONAL DEVELOPMENTIndica ecosystem To encourage self-directed learning, we launched the Indica Ecosystem, an initiative where relevant events, lectures, content or materials are systemically disseminated for employees to enhance their learning. PF Platform Following the directions of digital evolution, we made available on Sicredi Aprendi the PF Platform trail, which includes 18 courses and 11 simulators, allowing the employee perceive, understand and connect with the change. The objective is to support you in the transformation we are experiencing, understanding your role as a fundamental part of the relationship with our associates. In total, 12,677 employees have already accessed the trail and 1,801 have completed the courses. GRI 404-2 To provide a differentiated learning experience for employees who work with the PF Platform, in 2022 we launched a course developed using augmented reality. From this new learning technology, the employee interacts with virtual content and real visualizations. During the trail, he navigates through Cidade Sicredi, going through stories and learning even more about the benefits of the platform. GRI 404-2Change management Still in the context of business transformations, we understand that all employees can be agents of change. And to make them capable of being ambassadors of transformation, we provide a completely revitalized trail on the theme “Change Management”. In it, we support employees' understanding of what a culture of change is, how we can manage the topic and their role in this. In total, we have 253 employees who are taking the trail courses and 123 who have completed them. GRI 404-2 The importance of using data One of our strategic priorities is: “Be excellent in using data”. To support its achievement and acculturate employees, we developed the “A Importance of Data Use”. This track covers everything from basic concepts on how to implement a data-based culture to good practices in data consumption. GRI 404-2 Other initiatives During the year, we launched new content about Pix, Open Finance and Marketplace, themes that represent some of the big changes we are implementing. The available courses and trails consist of short videos, infographics, lives, podcasts and guides to support employees in generating new business and enhancing relationships with associates. GRI 404-2 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED GRI 404-3 PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS BY GENDER Men 88.4% Women 87.7% TOTAL 88% PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS  GRI 404-3   BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY Elected 28.0% High Leadership 85.0% Middle Leadership 90.1% Professionals 87.9% Technicians 87.1% Interns - Young Apprentice - Inspired by the universe of games, Journey to the New World was a gamified experience that proposed a new way of going through the Sicredi Aprendi courses and trails. The initiative arose from the challenge of connecting and accelerating the learning of employees and the development of our skills so that they are able to execute the strategic priorities of 2023 and enable the inspirational 2030. “Journey to the New World” engaged employees to go through Missions and Challenges that encouraged the realization of a Learning Journey that supported the development of skills related to strategic themes. With each challenge completed, employees were able to redeem their points for learning rewards. What's more, connected with our cooperative purpose and essence, the points of all participants were added together to achieve the collective goal, which was achieved and converted into financial support for those who need it most. So, together we made a difference, and benefited APAE Brasil, a project chosen by all collaborators. In total, 33,225 employees completed one or more challenges. With the positioning of the Learning Ecosystem, we understand that learning is the sum of formal and informal initiatives. With this, we have the ongoing challenge of stimulating new ways of learning, creating spaces for people to share, teach, learn, unlearn and relearn, all together and integrated. To monitor our progress and assess whether we are achieving our objective, we carried out the Perception Survey. 92% assessed that the Ecosystem increased learning possibilities. 158 159 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENTEmployee satisfaction In 2022, we continued to use the Great Place to Work (GPTW) methodology to carry out our climate research. More than 29 thousand employees contributed their perception of what it is like to work at Sicredi and, as a result, we were once again certified by GPTW as a great place to work. We reached a confidence index of 89% — one percentage point above last year and our highest historical score in the System. We were also recognized in 4th place as the best company to work for in the country in the “Financial Institutions – Credit Cooperatives” category by GPTW. The ranking is published annually and rewards the best companies to work for at a national, regional, sectoral and thematic level. This important The award ceremony is held in 53 countries, with the aim of measuring whether the working environments of participating companies are excellent places to work professionally. The search for this recognition, in addition to consolidating our cultural practices and stimulating our constant evolution, adds value to our brand and makes us relevant for attracting new talent capable of boosting our business strategy.Social Investment Due to our cooperative nature, We believe that, to be relevant, we need to do more than generate financial results, we need to generate value for the communities where we are present. In this sense, we developed our social investment strategy, which proposes local development initiatives aligned with our purpose and the principles of cooperativism. GRI 3-3 To measure the impact of our initiatives, we created the Sicredi Social Investment (ISS) indicator, which calculates the total value of resources invested in social, environmental, cultural and educational actions in the System. In 2022, we invested R$301.27 million in actions through FATES, the Social Fund, donations, incentive and sponsorship laws. GRI 3-3FATES From the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (FATES), we strengthen the principles of cooperativism, offering resources to assist members, their families, and, when provided for in the statutes, employees and the community in their area of action. To the cooperatives reserve at least 5% of their financial results for FATES. In 2022, R$231.3 million was allocated to FATES, while R$246.4 million was used by cooperatives*. Sicredi DL06 2020 20202021 20212022 2022152.4 89.2160.8 120.8231.3 246.4Volume allocated to FATES (R$ million) Volume used by FATES (R$ million) CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES *The amount used by FATES is greater than intended, given the use of the balance of years previous ones. 160 161 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022PROMOTING PEOPLE DEVELOPMENTSicredi in the Community The positive impact on communities is a natural consequence of our business model. Therefore, we turned the Sicredi na Comunidade platform, originally conceived at Central Sicredi Centro Norte, into our social investment hub. GRI 3-3 This is a digital platform that uses technology to connect those who want to allocate resources with social impact actions positive. In other words, it connects those who need it with those who want to cooperate. We thus create an interactive ecosystem that highlights the power of cooperation and demonstrates that, together, we create a better world. The hub seeks to keep the essence of cooperativism alive and is connected with our purpose of "Building a more prosperous society together". Therefore, its initiatives take local needs into account and generate bonds of trust, which strengthen the community, associates and, therefore, consequence, our business. GRI 413-1 At the end of 2022, we had implemented the Social Fund, Sponsorships and Courses (EAD) initiatives on the platform. The next initiatives to be added will be Volunteering, Donations and Incentive Laws. GRI 413-1Social Fund The Social Fund is a program in which cooperatives allocate a percentage of the previous year's results to support local social projects of collective interest. Supported actions may include practices aimed at education, culture, sport, health, environment, safety and social inclusion. GRI 3-3 In this way, we materialize our interest in the community and manage to make a difference by supporting actions that generate long-term results, with measurable results and benefits. 2020 2021 202222.6 30.7 40.3Volume invested by the social fund (R$ million) Sicredi DL05 +31%Contribute to the development of communities On the Sicredi na Comunidade platform we have a Fund tool Social. In it, it is possible to register social projects of collective interest that can be supported by Sicredi and that contribute to the development of the communities where we operate. In 2022, R$40.3 million were invested in 5,171 social projects of collective interest through the Social Fund, which impacted 5,450,416 people. Sicredi DL05 FIND OUT MORE AT: https://www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/fundosocial 162 163 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIESCOOPERATION THAT CONNECTS, GROWS. EDUCATION, COOPERATION AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT.Social FundDonations Volunteering Incentive Laws CoursesSponsorshipSOCIAL INVESTMENT SICREDISociety Society SocietySociety SocietyPartner Companies Partner Companies Partner CompaniesEmployees and Associates Employees and Associates AssociatesAssociates Partner entitiesPartner entitiesPartner entities FOR MORE INFORMATION, ACCESS: https://www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade Volunteering SponsorshipsSocial Sponsorships Sponsorships are part of our strategy and cooperative business model, directing our attention to actions that make a difference for people and communities. In this sense, all the projects and actions we support aim, in addition to brand exposure and increased visibility, to bring a positive impact in the regions where we operate. Therefore, we support actions and projects that help make society more prosperous. Because of this, the sponsorships we conduct are based on three main objectives: Relationship, Brand Exposure and Corporate Citizenship. The projects we support are chosen based on the following pillars: education, local development and cooperation. To facilitate community access, organize requests and bring transparency to the process, we have, within Sicredi na Comunidade, a request for sponsorships, which can be national, local or regional. The tool also provides autonomy and independence for cooperatives, enabling each one to assess local needs and strategies. FIND OUT MORE AT: https://www.sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/patrocinio We can categorize our sponsorships into the following themes: • Corporate citizenship: sponsorships considered as social investment, which include cooperation, education or local development. These are our priority causes defined in accordance with our strategy and brand positioning; • Brand exposure: support for projects that generate gains for our image, such as, for example, sports sponsorships; • Relationship: these are those actions in which there is no presence of our brand, but rather financial support. It can also be understood as donations, since we do not have brand visibility linked to the act. 164 165 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIESDonation Platform In December 2022, we launched the Donation Platform, in a pilot phase, exclusively for CAS employees and in March 2023, it will be launched for the entire System. Through it, we want to connect the entire community, encouraging and promoting donations. Our objective is to provide, in schools throughout Brazil, access to the programs A União Faz a Vida, School Cooperatives and Journey of Financial Education at Schools. Donating through this platform is investing in children and teenagers, so we can build the future we dream for our country. By raising funds, we will promote people's cooperation and encourage the spirit of cooperativism and solidarity, seeking together to build a more prosperous society, through social transformation. In the second half of 2023, we will make new features available on the platform. At this time, partner entities They will have a space to publicize their campaigns and raise funds for their projects. FIND OUT MORE AT: http://sicredi.com.br/nacomunidade/doacoes81 presentations 81 municipalities in 13 states More than 21 thousand young people impactedIncentive laws Through tax incentive laws, we allocate part of the income tax due to social projects and cultural, duly approved, and that contribute to a better society. By allocating resources, we can make a difference and support local projects that transform lives, whether through sport, art, health or social assistance. In this way, we generate value for society through the following laws: • Culture Incentive Law; • Sports Incentive Law; • Municipal Fund for the Elderly. In 2022, we allocated a total of R$5 million through Federal Tax Incentive Laws. This value represents the impact we generate in more than 42 municipalities, distributed across 10 states, benefiting 49 projects and funds. Sicredi DL07 #TOGETHER For 11 years, the Sicredi Foundation has been a proponent of projects through the Culture Incentive Law, promoting theatrical plays in cities where we operate, in order to bring culture, information and entertainment to different communities. In a playful way, the play #JUNTOS raises awareness and informs young people about the topics of financial education, cooperation, human relations and technologies. 166 167 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIESCourses With the courses available on the Sicredi na Comunidade platform, we seek to empower people through knowledge, thus generating prosperity. By integrating the Learning Ecosystem, the platform offers several courses for members and non-members, with the aim of promoting everyone's personal and professional development, with a focus on the development of communities. In addition to the interest in the community, the course platform is related to the 5th principle of cooperativism: education, training and information. Discover the platform's differences: Digital environment: classes in virtual environments so you can learn whenever and wherever you want, your way. Free courses: our courses are free for members and the community, as we believe in collective development. Protagonism in learning: the contents are relevant so that each person can learn whenever and wherever they want from different themes.The courses are divided into five main axes that reinforce our purpose, available in digital or hybrid formats. Discover the thematic proposals: Education for social transformation: Strengthening education in the communities in which we are present. Financial education for a sustainable life: Contributing to the construction of healthy habits in relation to finances. FIND OUT MORE AT: https://www.sicredi.com.br/ nacomunidade/cursos Cooperativism in practice: Dive into the essence of cooperativism and knowledge of this movement. For you and your business: Contains training courses for personal and professional development. For a better world: Topics on sustainability, sustainable development goals and positive impact. 168 169 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIESVolunteering The Volunteer Movement is a free membership initiative that aims to promote voluntary service in a systematic and effective way, involving employees and associates in civic action. Its objective is to encourage these audiences so that, driven by an ethic of solidarity, they dedicate their work and talent to causes of social and community interest, contributing to the SDGs and the principles of cooperativism. GRI 3-3  We consider volunteering to be a powerful way of engaging people in facing social challenges and in the search for a fairer and more just society. responsible. The initiative benefits both society in general and the volunteer in particular, strengthening trust, solidarity and reciprocity among citizens and creating opportunities for participation. GRI 3-3 C-Day Cooperate Day, also known as C-Day, is a national initiative for volunteering, organized by the Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OCB) that takes place annually, in celebration of International Cooperative Day. The initiative seeks express the strength of cooperativism in favor of social transformations, mobilizing thousands of participants in volunteer actions throughout Brazil. In 2022, we developed the event training registration tool for the volunteer movement. Through it, the cooperatives registered shares, as well as managed the volunteer movement and organized the management of events. The initiative mobilized employees from all our cooperatives and impacted positively the lives of those who had active contact with volunteering, participating in actions that transformed realities. 2020, 2021 people and involved 50,754 volunteers. Sicredi DL08 +345% 170 171 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIESEducation programs A União Faz a Vida Program For over 27 years, we have developed the A União Faz a Vida Program, which seeks to contribute to schools in the challenge of innovating education models and enhancing principles and values ​​of cooperation and citizenship among children and adolescents, through its own methodology, valuing knowledge obtained outside and inside school. This methodology, which can be developed in Early Childhood Education, Elementary School and High School, it makes students protagonists of the learning process through the development of projects that help to explore knowledge, beyond school content, what we call globalized knowledge. Over the last 27 years, the União faz a Vida Program has generated positive impacts on communities: • + 4.2 million children and adolescents impacted; • + 200 thousand educators involved; • + 3.9 thousand schools; • + 650 municipalities in 15 Brazilian states. In 2022, based on the results of the Program Impact Measurement3 and internal and external research on the education scenario in Brazil, we structured the action plan for the next three years. This planning aims to enhance the A União Faz a Vida Program, maintaining its innovative approach and alignment with the principles of Cooperation and Citizenship. Currently 69 cooperatives develop the A União Faz A Vida Program, representing 66% of the system. GRI 413-1   42,738 participating educators 507,074 participating children and adolescents 576 municipalities 2,945 schools 11,995 projectsPositive impact of the A União Faz a Vida Program in 2022  GRI 3-3 | Sicredi DL03   3 https://auniaofazavida.com.br/impacto/estudo/Development and Qualifications of the A União Faz a Vida Program Throughout the year, Fundação Sicredi, together with the centers, offered training to Pedagogical and Development Advisors of Cooperativism with the aim of qualifying new professionals for local work. In addition, ongoing training was carried out to allow all advisors to meet to study and discuss current education and program developments, making it possible to maintain quality in the advice and training provided to educators and school managers in partner municipalities. In total, there were more than 450 training hours in 2022. Given the expansion of the Program, In 2022, 210 professionals were qualified by Fundação Sicredi to work locally with the Program, both pedagogical advisors and in the area of ​​cooperativism development. In addition to the initial training process, we also promote training with a focus on early childhood education, to broaden our perspectives on childhood and project pedagogy, in addition to training with a focus on school and educational management, aiming to support the construction of participatory management. A Fundação Sicredi seeks to maintain training quality also through publications that generate theoretical support, based on practices carried out, for the work of pedagogical advisors. This year, we delivered a book on educational practices, which covers topics relating to current education challenges and topics related to the Program to support the educational practices of pedagogical advisors, educators and school managers. 172 173 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIESSchool Cooperatives Program 2020 2021 2022145 152 200Number of School Cooperatives  Sicredi DL04  The School Cooperatives Program combines our belief in the transformative power of education and cooperativism to build a more prosperous society. Through it, we expand learning opportunities for adolescents and young people, developing social and cultural activities that promote the values ​​and principles of cooperativism. GRI 3-3 In the Program, students are challenged to create and develop a School Cooperative with educational purposes and, in the process, have the opportunity to experience the principles and values ​​of cooperativism, seeking to contribute to a more humane and supportive world. GRI 3-3 The initiative promotes the development of dimensions such as: • Leadership • Entrepreneurship • Financial education • Social inclusion Participation occurs through free and voluntary participation of students enrolled in the final years of Elementary and Secondary Education, under the guidance of a teacher from the partner educational institution. The Program's methodology is based on the thinking of great educators who view experience as a central element of learning. Therefore, gamification is the methodological approach by which the Program is structured, through the Cooperlândia game. The game is a cooperative learning trail, in which, with each mission, the group chooses the path to create and develop a School Cooperative, focusing on skills such as knowledge, creativity, citizenship and leadership. In 2022, we operated in 207 educational institutions in 119 municipalities, impacting 6,570 thousand students. GRI 3-3 This year, the first in-person qualification classes of the School Cooperatives Program were held, since it was implemented in a systemic format. This training involved understanding the insertion of the Cooperatives Program Schoolchildren in the System as one of the social responsibility initiatives aimed at developing the values ​​and principles of cooperativism; Relate the methodology of the School Cooperatives Program with the context of education in Brazil to ensure its contribution to the integral development of students; Experiment with the methodology of the School Cooperatives Program for its implementation in partnership with educational institutions in Brazil; Mobilize practices active pedagogical activities in order to expand repertoires with pedagogical advisors for the implementation of the School Cooperatives Program in school communities. of 100 pedagogical and cooperative development advisors, from the Sicredi PR/SP/RJ, Central North and South/Southeast centers, totaling 24 hours of activities per class, with the following objectives: 174 175 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIESLive education Our programs education are committed to contributing to the experience of the principles of cooperation and citizenship, promoting the protagonism of children, adolescents and young people. With this, we unite the community around a common goal and form a broad connection network. In this context, teachers, in addition to being fundamental to all Brazilian education, are our great supporters in carrying out the programs. GRI 3-3. Therefore, we held it on October 5, 2022, on Teacher's International, the first live of our education programs. The event, which had more than 8,700 GRI 3-3 views, paid homage to the education professionals who work with our programs, who are committed to developing values ​​such as dialogue, justice, solidarity, cooperativism, citizenship, financial education, entrepreneurship and respect for diversity. Our live had as its theme “Cooperative Education: Challenges and the Importance of teacher”, and proposed a dialogue with professor António Nóvoa, internationally recognized as a great thinker of current education, addressing aspects of the historical and current organization of the school model. Mobilizers of the Future Action promoted between the cooperative Sicredi Evolucion, from Central Sicredi Norte/Nordeste, and the Community Educational Training Center (CEFEC). Currently 245 children and adolescents between 5 and 13 years old participate in activities through the After-school learning. The activities offered are: human development, gamification, dance, arts, guided recreation, music, sport, life project, audiovisual activity, storytelling. The Professional Qualification Program serves teenagers and young people, aged 14 to 23, with a cutting and brushing course. 176 177 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022CONTRIBUTE TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES05 Annexes 178Annex of indicators PROPORTION BETWEEN LOWEST WAGE AND THE LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE, WITH DISCRIMINATION BY GENDER  GRI 202-1 2022LOWEST MALE WAGE LOWEST FEMALE WAGE MINIMUM WAGE MALE FEMALE Central South/Southeast1,303.05 1,840.92 1,212.00 108% 152% Central PR/ SP/ RJ1,551.72 1,551.72 1,212.00 128% 128% Central Central North1,636.47 1,636.47 1,212.00 135% 135% Central Brazil Central2,121.43 2,121.43 1,212.00 175% 175% Central Northeast1,660.32 1,559.46 1,212.00 137% 129% CAS 1,849.12 1,980.83 1,212.00 153% 163% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER, BY GENDER 5,153 21.5% 4,387 19.9% ​​TOTAL 12,240 30, 3% 7,871 24.9% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER, BY AGE GROUP GRI 401-1 2022 NUMBER OF NEW EMPLOYEES RETIREED RATE OF NEW HIRES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES TERMINATED TURNOVER RATE Under 30 years old 7,545 46.5% 4,063 35.7% Between 30 and 50 years old 4,452 20.3% 3,438 18.0% Over 50 years old 243 11.1% 370 14.0% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER, BY REGION  GRI 401-1 2022NUMBER OF NEW EMPLOYEES HIREDRATE OF NEW HIRESTOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES TERMINATEDTURNOVER RATE Central South/Southeast 3,598 25.9% 2,181 20.8% Central PR/SP/RJ 3,554 29.0% 2.3 69 24.1% Central Central North2 .287 40.5% 1,247 31.3% Central Brazil Central1,203 37.1% 877 32.1% Central Northeast 539 27.3% 701 31.5% CAS 1,059 31.7% 496 23.3% GENDER OF EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL .431 82% 314 18% Top Leadership266 234 88% 32 12% Middle Leadership5,109 2,771 54% 2,338 46% Professionals 30,204 11,558 38% 18,646 62% Technicians 956 357 37% 599 63% Interns 1,250 422 35.3% 828 64.7% Young people Apprentices834 304 36.4% 530 63.5% TOTAL 40,364 17,077 42.3% 23,287 57.7% 180 181 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESDeclaration of use:Sicredi - Sistema de Crédito Cooperativo, reported in compliance with the GRI Standards for the period from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022. GRI used: GRI 1 Fundamentals 2021.AGE GROUP OF THOSE EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL GRI 405-1 2022TOTAL (QUANITY)LESS THAN 30 (QUANITY)PERCENT - TUALBETWEEN 30 AND 50 (QUANTITY)PERCEN - ACTUALMORE THAN 50 (QUANTITY)PERCENT - TUAL Elected 1,745 21 1 % 577 33% 1,147 66% High Leadership266 – 0% 172 65% 94 35% Medium Leadership5,109 499 10% 4,239 83% 371 7% Professionals 30,204 13,380 44% 16,283 54% 541 2% Technicians 956 323 34% 598 63% 35 4% Interns 1,250 1,178 94% 72 6% – 0% Young Apprentices834 834 100% – 0% – 0% TOTAL 40,364 16,235 40% 21,941 54% 2,188 5% BLACK EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL GRI 405-1 2022 TOTAL (QUANTITY) PERC ENTUAL Elected 52 0, 1% High Leadership 11 0.2% Medium Leadership 377 0.9% Professionals 4,391 10.9% Technicians 129 0.3% Interns 399 1.0% Young Apprentices 233 0.6% TOTAL 5,592 13.85% PERSON WITH DISABILITIES BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL GRI 405-1 2022 TOTAL (QUANTITY) PERCENTAGE Elected 0 0 Senior Leadership 0 0 Medium Leadership 67 0.2% Professionals 1,015 2.5% Technicians 13 0.03% Interns 2 0.004% Young Apprentices 3 0.007% TOTAL 1,100 2.72%Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI 2 Global Compact – GENERAL CONTENTS 2021 GENERAL CONTENTS GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-1Details of organizationWe are formed by singular credit cooperatives (financial institutions of the cooperative, non-profit and limited liability type), their respective centrals (financial institutions of the cooperative, non-profit and limited liability type), the Interstate Confederation of Linked Cooperatives to Sicredi (Confederação Sicredi, cooperative society type, non-profit and with limited liability), the Sicredi participación S/A (SicrediPar, of the public limited company type), the Foundation for Educational and Cultural Development of the Cooperative Credit System (Fundação Sicredi, of the private foundation type), Sicredi Fundos Garantidores (civil association, non-profit), the Banco Cooperativo Sicredi S/A (Banco Sicredi, a financial institution of the public limited company type) and the companies controlled by it: Administradora de Bens Sicredi Ltda, Administradora de Consórcios Sicredi Ltda, and Corretora de Seguros Sicredi Ltda (all limited liability companies, Ltda). -GRI Content Summary For the Content Index - Essentials Service, GRI Services reviewed whether the GRI Content Summary is presented clearly, in a manner consistent with the Standards, and that references to Contents 2-1 through 2-5, 3-1 and 3-2 are aligned with the corresponding sections in the body of the Report. The Service was carried out in the Portuguese version of the Report. 182 183 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESStandard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI 2 Global Compact: General Contents – 20212-2Entities included in the organization's sustainability reportsSicredi's Combined Financial Statements comprise the following entities: Banco Cooperativo Sicredi S.A., Cooperativas Centrais de Credit, Individual Credit Cooperatives, Confederation of Sicredi Cooperatives, Administradora de Consórcios Sicredi LTDA, Sicredi Fundos Garantidores and some Investment Funds in which these entities assume or retain substantially risks and benefits.- GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-3 Reporting period, frequency and point of contactPublication of the sustainability report occurs annually. The period between January 1st and December 31st, 2022. Point of contact: gabriella_ dornelles@sicredi.com.br - 2-4 Reformulation of informationInclusion of SASB indicators, aiming for greater transparency with stakeholders and market standardization.- 2-5 External verification Page 103 - 2-6Activities, value chain and other commercial relationshipsSUPPLIERS BY REGION REGION TOTALPERCENT- UAL South 58,314 53.12% Southeast 21,807 19.86% Central-West 18,522 16.87% Northeast 5,648 5.14% North 5,454 4.97% International 43 0.04%- 2-7 Employees Quantitative indicator - 2-8 Workers who are not employeesWe have 107 third party collaborators. Data referring to outsourced employees of Sicredi Administrative Center - CAS- 2-9Governance structure and compositionPages 30, 34 and 35 - 2-10Appointment and selection of the highest governance bodyPage 34 - 2-11President of the highest governance bodyPages 34 and 35 - 2-12Role of the highest governance body in supervising impact managementPages 34 and 36 -Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI Global Compact 2: General Contents – 20212-13Delegation of responsibility for impact managementPage 43- 2-14Role played by the highest governance body in sustainability reportingPage 8 - 2-15 Conflicts of interest Page 64 10 2-16Communication of critical concernsCommunications of concerns Crucial issues at a systemic level are communicated through support Committees that report to the Board of Directors. Discussion in these specialized advisory committees provides the assessment of the most comprehensive technical aspects of the risks, reporting or indicating specific actions to the Board when applicable. Crucial concerns include cases of deviation from the risk levels set out in the Risk Appetite Declaration (RAS) that require action plans for compliance. Furthermore, qualitative aspects of strategic risks, evaluation of the reporting channel, conduct and relationships with associates are reported. 20 cases were reported in 2022.- 2-17Collective knowledge of the highest governance bodyPage 34 - GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-18Performance assessment of the highest governance bodyThe Board chose not to carry out the assessment for 2022.- 2-19Remuneration policiesPage 38 - 2-20Process for determining remunerationPage 38 - 184 185 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESStandard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI 2 Global Compact: General Contents – 20212-21Proportion of total annual remunerationThe calculation included the contractual salary, bonuses, private pension benefits, life insurance, employee meal program, dental assistance, medical assistance and daycare, also includes the potential to earn short-term variable remuneration and long term, according to the remuneration elements available for each position. For this calculation, interns, young apprentices and employees were not considered. inactive people who are retired due to disability. In total, there are 27 inactive employees recorded on 12/31/2022, who despite being inactive remain in the database, as their position is guaranteed in the event of recovery from disability and can continue to receive employment benefits. ENTITIES PROPORTION C. SOUTH 6.46 C. PR 2.85 C. CN 6.33 C. BRC 6.82 C. NNE 6.71 CAS 6.78 PROPORTION BETWEEN PERCENTAGE INCREASE ENTITYHIGHEST SALARYAVERAGE C. SOUTH 8.91% -8.78% C. PR 9.57% -14.90% C. CN 14.82% -9.90% C. BRC 16.26% -7.46% C. NNE 8.48% 0.10% CAS -20.01% -2.68% - 2-22Declaration on sustainable development strategyPage 4 - 2-23Policy commitmentsPages 42, 64, 65, 66, 67 and 126 -Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI 2 Global Compact: General Contents – 20212-24Incorporation of policy commitmentsPages 32, 66 and 67 - 2-25Processes to repair negative impactsPages 68 and 69 - 2-26Mechanisms for counseling and raising concernsPage 68 - 2-27Compliance with laws and regulationsDuring the year 2022, there were 9 ongoing cases in which fines were incurred and in previous years there were 10 cases, totaling R$1,415,648.19 in fines.- 2- 28Participation in associationsWe actively participate in Febraban, where we are part of the Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee and its Working Groups. We still participate in the Brazilian Association of Consortium Administrators (ABAC), Brazilian Agribusiness Association (ABAG), Brazilian Association of Real Estate Credit and Savings Entities (ABECIP), Brazilian Bank Association (ABBC), Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Market Entities (ANBIMA), Brazilian Association of Credit Card and Service Companies (ABECS), Organization of Brazilian Cooperatives (OBC) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM).- 2-29Approach to customer engagement stakeholdersPage 39 - 2-30Collective bargaining agreements89.90% of employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or convention. We consider employees and retirees.- GRI 3: Material Topics – 20213-1Process for defining material topicsPage 46 - 3-2 List of material topics Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 - 3-3Management of material topicsPages 60, 61, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 86, 94, 97, 98, 104, 124, 126, 132, 133, 137, 142, 144, 146, 147, 148, 151, 155, 161, 162, 163, 170, 172,174, 176- 186 187 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESStandard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact FOCAL THEME: SPREADING COOPERATIVISM AND SUSTAINABILITY. GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 3-3Management of material themesPages 76, 77, 78 and 79 Own indicators Own indicatorsSicredi- RC06Total number and percentage of Crescer graduates broken down Page 77 - Sicredi-RC07Number of tax and administration advisors trained at CrescerPage 77 - Sicredi-RC08Total and hours of employees trained in cooperative themes, broken down by programThe 13% increase in training hours on cooperative themes Cooperativism is due to the increase in the number of employees. Consequently, we have more employees taking cooperative courses.- Sicredi- RC10Total and hours of employees trained in sustainability topics, broken down by programThere was a variation of -15% in the number of employees who took courses on the topic of Sustainability, however, an increase of 61% in the number of hours of training on this topic. We evaluated the history of 2021 and identified that we jumped from 10 courses available on the sustainability theme to 40 courses in 2022. This demonstrates a greater offer of content, which results in a significant increase in hours, but a reduction in the number of employees who took the courses. This is due to two reasons: an increase in the number of employees hired throughout the year who have the option of taking or not carrying out the training as they are freely accessible content of individual interest.1Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact MATERIAL THEME: PROMOTING INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY GRI 3 – Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 - 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 - 3-3Management of material themesPages 80, 81, 82 and 83 - GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-10Appointment and selection for the highest governance bodyPage 34 - GRI 202: Market Presence – 2016202-1Proportion between the lowest salary and the local minimum wage, with discrimination by genderFor this indicator, only employees with working hours of 8 hours a day, as we equate it as provided for in legislation where the minimum wage is set for a full 8 hour day. For this indicator, inactive employees who are retired due to disability were not considered. In total, there are 27 inactive employees recorded on 12/31/2022, who despite being inactive remain in the database, as their position is guaranteed in the event of recovery from disability and can continue receiving benefits employment. The contractual salaries of these employees were considered to calculate the average remuneration of all employees. Interns, Young People and Elected Officers were also not considered.- GRI 401: Employment – ​​2016401-1New hires and employee turnoverPages 154, 180 and 181 - 401-3Maternity/paternity leavePage 86 6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities – 2016405-1Diversity in governance bodies and employeesPages 181 and 182 6 405-2Proportion between the base salary and remuneration received by women and those received by menPage 86 6 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination – 2016406-1Cases of discrimination and corrective measures takenIn 2022, we received a case through the reporting channel that was classified in the “Prejudice and/or discrimination” category, a reparation plan was implemented, with the results subsequently analyzed based on internal processes.6 188 189 REPORT OF SUSTAINABILITY 2022ANNEXESStandard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact Own indicatorsSicredi-RC01Campaigns, events and actions carried out to promote diversity, broken down by region and people affectedPage 81 6 Sicredi-RC02Diversity in the membership, with percentages by gender, age group , race and PCD by center and segmentPage 60 - Own indicatorsSicredi-RC17Number of women participating in the committee WomanPage 82 6 Sicredi-RC18Cooperatives with Women's Committee38% 6 Sicredi-RC19Number of young people participating in the CommitteePage 83 6 Sicredi-RC20Cooperatives with Youth Committee23% 6 MATERIAL THEME: STRENGTHEN OUR GOVERNANCE MODEL GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Theme definition process materialsPage 46 - 3-2 List of material topics Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 - 3-3Management of material topicsPages 60, 61, 76, 77, 78 and 79 - GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-9Structure of governance and compositionPage 36 2-10Selection and appointment to the highest governance bodyPage 34 -Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI Global Compact 2: General Contents – 20212-11President of the highest governance bodyPages 34 and 35 - 2- 12Role of the highest governance body in supervising impact managementPages 34 and 36 2-13Delegation of responsibility for impact managementPage 43 - 2-14Role played by the highest governance body in sustainability reportingPage 8 - 2-15 Conflicts of interest Page 64 - 2-17Collective knowledge of the highest governance bodyPage 34 - 2-18Performance assessment of the highest governance bodyThe board chose not to carry out the assessment relating to 2022.- 2-19Remuneration policiesPage 38 - GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-20Process adopted to determine remunerationPage 38 - 2-21 Total annual compensation ratio Page 186 2-26Mechanisms for advising and raising concernsPage 68 - GRI 205: Combating Corruption – 2016205-1Operations assessed for risks related to corruptionPage 64 10 205-2Communication and training in anti-corruption policies and proceduresPages 66 and 67 10 205-3Cases confirmed cases of corruption and measures takenDuring the year 2022, there were no records related to corruption.10 GRI 206: Unfair Competition – 2016206-1Legal actions by unfair competition, trust and monopoly practices In 2022, there were no legal actions due to unfair competition, trust or monopoly practices.– 190 191 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESStandard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling – 2016417 -3Cases of non-compliance in relation to communication and marketingWe have had no incidents of non-compliance in communication campaigns, promotional regulations, and sports sponsorships in 2022. – GRI 418: Customer privacy – 2016418-1Substantiated complaints regarding violation of privacy and loss of customer dataThe cases we count are records of complaints made through our service channels related to violation of privacy or loss of data from clients. 19 cases were registered regarding fraud and scams involving data from people with no connection with Sicredi to open an account and 1 case of member involving their data.– Own indicatorsSicredi-RC11Percentage of participants in assemblies, broken down by member and non-member, age group, gender and centralPage 62 – Sicredi-RC12Projects/channels to increase the transparency of the System before interested partiesPage 63 – Sicredi-RC13Actions taken to guarantee the privacy and security of member dataPage 72 – Sicredi-RC16Number of core coordinators, broken down by range age, gender and centralPage 63 – MATERIAL TOPIC: PROMOTING FINANCIAL EDUCATION GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 – 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 – 3- 3Management of material topicsPages 90 and 94 – Sector Contents: Financial ServicesFS16Initiatives to improve financial education by type of beneficiaryPages 91, 92, 93, 94 and 95 –Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of Global Compact Own IndicatorsSicredi-SR01Number of Financial Education actions carried out and number of people impacted, broken down by employee, associate and community by centerPage 90 – MATERIAL THEME: OFFERING FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS WITH ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themes Page 46 – 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 9 3-3Theme management materialsPages 101, 102, 108 and 109 – Sector Contents: Financial ServicesFS6Percentage of portfolio by lines of business by specific regions, size and sectorPage 104 – FS7Monetary value of products and services created to provide a specific social benefit for each line of business, divided by purposePage 119 and 120 9 FS8Monetary value of products and services created to provide a specific environmental benefit for each line of business, divided by purposePage 119 and 120 9 FS14Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged peoplePages 99 and 100 1 FS15Policies for fair development and sale of financial products and servicesPage 97 – FOCAL TOPIC: ENSURE INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-12Role of the highest governance body in supervising impact managementPage 34 and 36 – GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 – 192 193 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESStandard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI Global Compact 3: Material Themes – 20213-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 7 3-3Management of material themesPages 128, 130, 131 and 134 – GRI 201: Economic Performance – 2016201-2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising from climate changePage 131 7 Sector Contents: Services Financial Sector Contents: Financial ServicesFS1Policies with specific socio-environmental components applied to lines of businessPage 126 7 FS2Procedures for assessing and screening socio-environmental risks in lines of businessPages 128 and 129 4, 5 and 7 FS3Processes for monitoring the client's implementation of compliance with environmental and social requirements included in contracts or transactionsPage 127 7 FS4Process(es) to improve competence of personnel in the implementation of environmental and social policies and procedures applied in the lines of businessPage 130 7 FS5Interactions with customers/controlled companies/business partners regarding socio-environmental risks and opportunitiesPage 127 7 FS9Scope and frequency of audits to evaluate the implementation of environmental and social, and risk assessment proceduresPage 130 4, 5 and 7 FS10Percentage and number of companies in the portfolio of the institution with which the organization interacted on environmental or social issuesPage 128 7Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact FOCAL THEME: PROMOTING ECO-EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 – 3- 2 List of material topics Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 7, 8 and 9 3-3Management of material topics Pages 133 and 137 – GRI 305: Emissions – 2016305-1Direct emissions (Scope 1) of gases greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Page 137 7 and 8 305-2Indirect emissions (Scope 2) of greenhouse gases (GHG) from the acquisition of energyPage 137 7 and 8 305-3Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) of greenhouse gases (GHG) Page 137 7 and 8 305-4Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)Page 137 7 and 8 Own IndicatorsSicredi-SR03GHG emissions per employeePage 54 8 Sicredi-SR06Total emissions per employee (tCO2e/employee)Page 54 8 THEME MATERIAL: WORK WITH SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS WITH SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 – 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 1 and 8 3-3Material Management material themesPage 136, 148 and 149 – GRI 308: Environmental Assessment of Suppliers – 2016308-1New suppliers selected based on environmental criteriaPage 132 8 308-2Negative environmental impacts on the supply chain and measures taken Page GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 – 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 1 GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-3Management of material themesPage 146 – GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-23Policy commitmentsPages 42, 64, 65, 66, 67 and 126 – GRI 201: Economic Performance - 2016201-1Direct economic value generated and distributed Quantitative indicatorPage 144 – GRI 204: Purchasing practices – 2016204-1Proportion of spending on local suppliers Quantitative indicator Page 145 – GRI 202: Market Presence – 2016202-2Proportion of board members hired in the community localWe consider the Board of Directors and the Executive Board of the Centrals and Cooperatives to be senior management, as well as the Executive Board of the Sicredi Administrative Center. In this context, centrals and cooperatives have the autonomy to hire their Executive Board and we do not have systemic information about this process. All Board Members are members and, therefore, are part of the local community. At the Sicredi administrative center (CAS), 72% of Executive Directors were hired locally. We consider as local hiring those in which the Executive Director's CPF has been registered in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. – GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts – 2016203-2Significant indirect economic impactsPage 146 Generation of employment and income directly for 38 thousand employees and indirectly to more than 84 thousand suppliers; We are the only financial institution in more than 200 municipalities in Brazil, being that most of our agencies are in cities classified as deprived, rural, growing interior and prosperous interior; Through the Social Fund, our cooperatives allocate a percentage of their results from the previous year to support initiatives promoted by private, non-profit and legally constituted entities.–Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact FOCAL THEME: PROMOTING FINANCIAL INCLUSION . GRI 3: Themes Materials – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 3-3Management of material themesPage 146 Sector Contents: Financial ServicesFS13Access points in low population density or disadvantaged areas economically, by typePage 147 – Own indicatorsSicredi-DL01Number of municipalities in which Sicredi is the only financial institutionPage 147 – Sicredi-DL02Amount and percentage of result distributed to membersPage 145 – Sicredi-DL09Presence of Sicredi in needy municipalitiesPage 27 – Sicredi-DL10Number of inhabitants in municipalities where we are the only institutionPage 27 – Own indicatorsSicredi-DL11Percentage of municipalities where we are the only institution, with less than 10 thousand inhabitants:Page 27 – Sicredi-DL12Percentage of municipalities in which we are present, with less than 100 thousand inhabitantsPage 27 MATERIAL TOPIC: PROMOTING FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF PEOPLE GRI 2: General Contents – 20212-7 Employees Page 150 – 2-8Workers who are not employeesWe have 107 third-party workers.– GRI 3: Material Topics – 20213-1Process for defining material topicsPage 46 – 3-2 List of material topics Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 1 3-3Management of material themesPages 151 and 155 – 196 197 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESStandard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the GRI 404 Global Compact: Training and Education – 2016404-1Average hours of training per year, per employeePage 155 6 404-2Programs for improving employee skills and assistance with career transition Pages 156, 157 and 158 – 404-3Percentage of employees who receive evaluations regular performance and career development Page 159 6 Own indicatorsSicredi-RC09Assessment of cooperativism in employee performance analysisPage 151 6 Sicredi- DL13Amount (R$) invested in training for employeesThere was a 73% variation compared to 2021 in investment in training for employees. This is for three reasons: return of in-person training after the pandemic, increase in the number of employees and launch of the new learning positioning: Learning Ecosystem. 6 Own indicatorsSicredi-DL14Total number of trained employeesIncrease of 13% in trained employees, occurs by increasing the number of employees and investment value.6 Sicredi-DL15Average hours of training per employeePage 154 6 Sicredi-DL16Average number of hours of training per employee, by functional category, gender, ethnic/racial profilePage 155 6 Sicredi-DL17Amount of courses made available to train employees67% increase in courses made available – this year we launched the new positioning: Learning Ecosystem, which encouraged the system with new learning initiatives, one of the biggest changes was the reorganization of Sicredi Aprendi by thematic axes. All these changes drove the increase in new content.6Standard Contents Reference/direct responseRelationship with the principle of the Global Compact FOCAL THEME: CONTRIBUTING TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES GRI 3: Material Themes – 20213-1Process of defining material themesPage 46 – 3-2 List of material themes Pages 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50 1 3-3Management of material themesPages 161, 162, 163, 170, 172, 174 and 176– GRI 413: Local Communities – 2016413-1Operations with engagement, impact assessments and development programs aimed at the local community Pages 163 and 172 1 Own indicatorsSicredi-DL03Number of municipalities, educational institutions, students, educators and projects participating in the A União Faz a Vida Program, broken down by centerPage 55 1 Sicredi-DL04Number of municipalities, educational institutions and students participating in school cooperatives, broken down by centerPage 174 1 Own indicatorsSicredi-DL05Amount invested in community projects, number of projects and number of people impacted broken down by center and source of resources (Fates, Social Fund/ philanthropic or own resources)Page 162. In 2022, more cooperatives implemented the Social Fund initiative. Furthermore, the investment percentage of the 52 cooperatives that have the Social Fund varies annually, as it is calculated on the cooperative's annual result. If the result increases, the amount invested consequently increases.1 Sicredi-DL06Volume allocated to the Technical, Educational and Social Assistance Fund (Fates) and the volume used by the FundThere was a 43.9% increase in allocations to Fates. The increase in the value of FATES is linked to the increase in Sicredi's results. The growth in invested values ​​was 104%, as with the reduction of epidemiological restrictions, the activities funded by Fates were carried out in person, as well as the increase in inflation influenced the price of products and/or services.1 Sicredi-DL07Amounts allocated by incentive lawsPage 166 – Sicredi -DL08Number of volunteers, people benefited, actions carried out and municipalities affected by the day CPage 171 – 198 199 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESCODE METRIC ACCOUNTINGCATE - GORIAUNIDADE MEASUREMENT REFERENCE / DIRECT RESPONSE COMMERCIAL BANKS TOPICS FOR SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE AND ACCOUNTING METRICS FN-CB- 550a.2 Description of the approach to incorporating the results of mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy planning, long-term corporate strategy and other activities commercialAnalysis and DiscussionN/A Page 125 ACTIVITY METRICS FN-CB- 000.A(1) Quantity and (2) value of current and savings accounts by segment: (a) individual and (b) small companyQuantitativeNumber in reporting currencyA) Personal Number (units) 108,518 Value R$ 302,221,734.37 B) Small businesses Number (units) 1,567,935 Value R$ 2,358,382,106.88 FN-CB- 000.B(1) Number and (2) value of loans by segment: (a) individuals, (b) small businesses and (c) companiesQuantitativeNumber in reporting currencyPage 107 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE OPPORTUNITIES We carry out periodic reports on our commitments and our activities involving the topic of sustainability. Through the Sustainability Report, we publish our financial and non-financial information in a transparent way, we address the management of the significant impacts of our materiality and how we explore new opportunities. In line with BCB Resolution No. 139, of September 15, 2021, on the publication of the Social, Environmental and Climate Risks and Opportunities Report (GRSAC Report), we invite you to read the Sustainability Report in full, for access to our business opportunities associated with this agenda. The GRSAC Report will be published by June 29, 2023, on our institutional website. FIND OUT MORE AT: www.sicredi.com.brACCOUNTING METRICS CODE - GORIAMEASUREMENT UNITREFERENCE / DIRECT RESPONSE COMMERCIAL BANKS TOPICS FOR SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE AND ACCOUNTING METRICS FN-CB- 230a.1(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving information from personal identification and (3) number of account holders affectedQuantitativePercentage %No data breach incidents occurred in 2022. FN-CB- 230a.2Description of approach to identify and address data security risksAnalysis and DiscussionN/A Pages 72 and 73 FN-CB- 240a.1(1) Number and (2) amount of outstanding loans eligible for programs designed to promote the development of small businesses and communitiesQuantitativeNumber in reporting currencyPage 142 FN-CB- 240a.2(1) Number and (2) amount of outstanding and non-provisioned loans eligible for programs designed to promote small business and community developmentQuantitativeNumber in reporting currencyPage 149 FN-CB- 240a.4Number of participants in initiatives of financial education for unbanked, unbanked or underserved customersQuantitative Number Page 93 FN-CB- 410a.1Exposure of commercial and industrial credit, by sectorQuantitativeCurrency reporting Page 128 and 129 FN-CB- 410a.2Description of the approach for incorporating environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into credit analysisAnalysis and DiscussionN/A Pages 127, 128 and 129 FN-CB- 510a.1Total value of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, antitrust, anticompetitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other industry-related laws or regulations financialQuantitativeReporting currencyNo monetary losses have occurred as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, antitrust, anticompetitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other laws or regulations related to the financial sector given in 2021. FN-CB- 510a.2 Policy Description and reporting proceduresAnalysis and DiscussionN/A Page 68 FN-CB- 550a.1Global Systemically Important Bank Score (G-SIB), by categoryAnalysis and DiscussionPointsThe requirement to measure the indicators used for the G-SIB score is regulated by BACEN (Brazilian Central Bank) through BCB Resolution 171/21. The provisions of the resolution apply only to institutions in the S1 segment that have a Total Gross Exposure exceeding two hundred billion euros, thus exempting all financial institutions linked to Sicredi from the calculation. Summary of Indicators SASB 200 201 REPORT OF SUSTAINABILITY 2022ANNEXESBy joining the Global Compact we also assume the responsibility of contributing to achieving the goals of the 2030 Agenda, a global agenda that aims to engage countries, companies, institutions and civil society in favor of sustainable development. It was established in 2015, when the 193 member countries of the United Nations approved, by consensus, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Eradication of poverty End poverty in all its forms, everywhere. THEME PAGE Promote financial education 90 Health and Well-being Ensure a healthy life and promote well-being for everyone, at all ages. THEME PAGE Contribute to the development of communities163 Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. THEME PAGE Spread cooperativism and sustainability75 Promote financial education 90 Promote people's development150 Contribute to the development of communities163Gender equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. THEME PAGE Promote inclusion and diversity 80 Clean and affordable energy Ensure reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable access to energy for all. THEME PAGE Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact97 Promote eco-efficient management 133 Decent work and economic growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. THEME PAGE Spread cooperativism and sustainability75 Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact97 Ensure integrated risk management 124 Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management132 Promote the local economy 142 Promote inclusion financial 146 Promote people's development150 1ERADICATION OF POVERTY Mt+i Industry, innovation and infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. THEME PAGE Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management132 Reducing inequalities Reducing inequality within and between countries. THEME PAGE Promote inclusion and diversity 80 Promote the local economy 142 Promote inclusion financial 146 Sustainable cities and communities Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. THEME PAGE Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact.97 Responsible consumption and production Ensure sustainable production and consumption patterns. THEME PAGE Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact97 Promote eco-efficient management 133 Boosting the local economy 142 Action against global climate change Take urgent measures to combat climate change and its impacts. THEME PAGE Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact97TOPIC PAGE. Ensure integrated risk management 124 Promote eco-efficient management 137 Life on land Protect, recover and promote the sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. THEME PAGE Offer financial and non-financial solutions with positive economic, social and environmental impact97 Promote eco-efficient management 133 Peace justice and effective institutions Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, responsible and inclusive institutions in all levels. THEME PAGE Strengthen our governance model 60 Spread cooperativism and sustainability75 Ensure integrated risk management 124 Work with suppliers and partners with sustainable management132 Promote the development of people 150 Partnerships and means of implementation Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. THEME PAGE Promote the local economy 142 Contribute to the development of communities163SDG Map 202 203 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESEY assurance report I 1 / 3 São Paulo Corporate Towers Av. Pres. Juscelino Kubitschek, 1909 Torre Norte - 9th Floor - Itaim Bibi 04543 -011 - São Paulo/SP, Brazil Tel: (11) 2573 -3000 Fax: (11) 2573 -5780 ey.com.br Limited assurance report from independent auditors about the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Credit System's Annual Sustainability Report Cooperative – Sicredi, base year 2022. To the Shareholders, Advisors and Administrators of the Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi Porto Alegre - RS Introduction We were hired by the Cooperative Credit System – Sicredi (“Sicredi”) to present our limited assurance report on its own sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report Sicredi’s 2022 Annual Sustainability Report (“Report”), relating to the year ended 31 December 2022. Our limited assurance does not extend to information from prior periods or any other information released in conjunction with the Report, including any embedded images, audio files or videos. Responsibilities of Sicredi's management Sicredi's management is responsible for: • Selecting and establishing appropriate criteria for preparing the information contained in the Report; • Prepare indicators according to the criteria and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI Standards”), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board – Banco Comercial (“SASB”) and its own criteria regarding sustainability metrics; • Design, implement and maintain internal control over information relevant to the preparation of the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report, which are free from material distortion, regardless of whether caused by fraud or error. Responsibility of independent auditors Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report, based on limited assurance work carried out in accordance with Technical Announcement CTO 07 – 2022 issued by the CFC, and based on NBC TO 3000 – Assurance engagements other than Audit and Review, also issued by the CFC, which is equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). These standards require the auditor to comply with ethical requirements, independence and other related responsibilities, including the application of the Brazilian Quality Control Standard (NBC PA 01) and, therefore, the maintenance of a comprehensive quality control system, including documented policies and procedures on the compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. EY I 2 / 3 Additionally, the aforementioned standards require that the work be planned and executed with the objective of obtaining limited assurance that the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report, taken as a whole, are free from material distortions. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) consists mainly of inquiries to Sicredi management and other Sicredi professionals who are involved in preparing the information, as well as the application of analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to conclude, in the form of limited assurance, about the information taken together . A limited assurance engagement also requires the execution of additional procedures when the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead you to believe that the sustainability indicators and metrics disclosed in the Report, taken together, may present relevant distortions. The procedures selected were based on our understanding of aspects relating to the compilation, materiality and presentation of the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report, other circumstances of the work and our consideration of areas and processes associated with the material information disclosed in the Report, in which relevant distortions could exist. The procedures included, among others: a) the planning of the work, considering the relevance, the volume of quantitative and qualitative information and the operational and internal control systems that served as the basis for the elaboration of the constant sustainability indicators and metrics On the report; b) understanding the calculation methodology and the procedures for compiling indicators through inquiries with managers responsible for preparing the information; c) the application of analytical procedures on quantitative information and inquiries into qualitative information and its correlation with the sustainability indicators and metrics disclosed in the information contained in the Report; d) for cases in which sustainability indicators and metrics correlate with indicators of a financial nature, the comparison of these indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. The limited assurance work also included adherence to the guidelines and criteria of the GRI Standards, SASB and own criteria applicable in the preparation of the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report. We believe that the evidence obtained in our work is sufficient and appropriate to support our conclusion in the limited form. Scope and limitations Procedures performed in limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing and are smaller in extent than in reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than that which would be obtained if reasonable assurance engagement had been performed. If we had performed a reasonable assurance work, we could have identified other issues and possible distortions that may exist in the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report. Therefore, we do not express an opinion on this information. 204 205 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXESGeneral Coordination Cooperative and Sustainability Superintendence Communication Coordination Brand, Communication, Segments and UX Superintendence Data source Sicredi GRI Consulting, Editorial Coordination and Project Management Ricca Sustainability Review Ricca Sustainability Graphic design and Layout Ricca Sustainability Photos Marco Photographer João Alves Bruna Scheidt Clarissa Londero Sicredi Archive Adobe Stock Corporate Information comunicacao_institucional@sicredi.com.br sistência@sicredi.com. brAssurance report EY Credits I 3 / 3 Non-financial data is subject to further inherent limitations than financial data, given the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate these data. Qualitative interpretations of materiality, relevance and accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Additionally, we did not carry out any work on data reported for previous periods, nor in relation to future projections and goals. The preparation and presentation of sustainability indicators and metrics followed the GRI Standards, SASB and own criteria and, therefore, do not have the objective of ensuring compliance with social, economic, environmental or engineering laws and regulations. The aforementioned standards, however, provide for the presentation and disclosure of possible non-compliance with such regulations when significant sanctions or fines occur. Our assurance report must be read and understood in this context, inherent to the selected criteria (GRI Standards and SASB). Conclusion Based on the procedures carried out, described in this report and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that leads us to believe that the sustainability indicators and metrics contained in the Report for the year ended December 31, 2020 Sicredi, were not prepared, in all relevant aspects, in accordance with the criteria and guidelines of GRI Standards, SASB and its own criteria. Harbor Alegre (RS), March 17, 20 23. Ernst & Young Auditores Independentes S/S Ltda. CRC SP - 034519/O Leonardo Masseli Dutra Sustainability Partner Diego F. Pereira Accountant CRC SP – 264.236/O-3 206 207 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022ANNEXES