MINUTES OF APPROVAL OF CANDIDATURES FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD AND FISCAL COUNCIL OF COOPERATIVA SICRED COOMAMP On the 22nd (twenty-two) day of February 2021, at 4 pm, in the meeting room, located on Av. Carlos Cunha, s /n, Calhau, CEP: 65.076-820, the electoral commission, in accordance with the schedule contained in the Notice, held a meeting in order to analyze the candidacies. The procedures were strictly followed, with a deadline for registration of 09 on February 18, 2021. The documentation of all candidates is attached to these minutes. The Electoral Commission states that a single ticket was registered for the Administrative Council with 09 (nine) candidates and a single ticket for the Fiscal Council with 06 (six) candidates. The Electoral Commission carries out, in this act, the approval of candidacies for the positions of Administrative Councilor and Fiscal Councilor. They signed up for the position of 1st Administrative Councilor, Joao Leonardo Sousa Pires Leal, 2nd Administrative Advisor, Carlos Magno Galvao Carvalho, 3rd Administrative Advisor, Inacio de Araujo Costa, 4th Administrative Advisor, José Walter Goncalves Silva Junior, 5th Administrative Advisor, Augusto Aristoteles Matoes Brandao, 6th Administrative Advisor , Jairo Cavalcanti Vieira, 7th Administrative Councilor, José Ribamar Nery Rodrigues Junior, 1st Substitute of the Administrative Council, Ciro Ibiapina Cardoso, 2nd Substitute of the Council Administrative, Maria Lenisa Ferreira de Sousa Albuquerque, 1st Fiscal Councilor, Raimundo Costa Vale, 2nd Fiscal Councilor, Andre' William Gadelha Vila Nova, 3rd Fiscal Councilor, Antonio Fernando Sousa Oliveira, 1st Substitute of the Fiscal Council, Jose' Ribeiro da Silva Filho, 2nd Substitute of the Fiscal Council, Maria do Socorro Quadros de Abreu, 3rd Substitute of the Fiscal Council, Claudio Fontoura Nogueira da Cruz. Everyone upon registration presented the requested documents, with the exception of the negative protest certificate. In view of the measures to adapt the functioning of extrajudicial services adopted during this period of Public Health Emergency of National Importance, due to the new coronavirus, the Electoral Commission decided to waive the protest certificate, considering that the deadline for its issuance is of up to 30 (thirty) days. It was decided to waive federal tax certificates for candidates who did not present them in a timely manner, in view of the that the electoral code applied in the present election does not have a year of its publication, therefore, this Electoral Commission must observe the constitutional guarantee of the principle of electoral precedence, which determines that the law that changes the process election is inapplicable to the election taking place within one year of the date of publication, the device aims to protect candidates and voters at the same time. However, there were issues with the candidates' criminal certificates. José Ribeiro da Silva Filho and Carlos Magno Galvﬁo Carvalho, both of whom must be notified through the ticket representative to provide clarifications. Nothing was found that could prevent any of them from applying. In view of the above and in compliance with Article 4 of the Singular Cooperative Electoral Code and Notice No. 01/2021 for the election of the Administrative Council (2021-2024 Management) and the Fiscal Council (2021-2023 Management) of Sicredi Coomamp , the Electoral Commission approves the registration of the slates described below, as well as the names of the candidates as per the list below, with no need to open a deadline for replacing names: slate 1 WV § LIST OF CANDIDATES FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL § J 050 Leonardo Sousa Pires Leal Carlos Magno Galvao Carvalho lnacio de Araujo Costa Jose' Walter Gongzalves Silva Junior Augusto Aristételes Matoes Brandao J airo Cavalcanti Vieira I J osé Ribamar Nery Rodrigues Junier Ciro Ibiapina Cardoso Maria Lenisa Ferreira de Sousa Albuquerque PLACE 1 LIST OF CANDIDATES FOR THE FISCAL COUNCIL Raimundo Costa Vale André William Gadelha Vila Nova Antonio Fernando Sousa Oliveira J osé Ribeiro da Silva Filho Maria do Socorro Paintings by Abreu Claudio Fontoura Nogueira da Cruz Forward for due disclosure . N50 having nothing that could prevent the participation of those registered in the electoral process. These Minutes were drawn up, read, approved and signed. ®Qu<»~\«u£>X"‘~'fl/W:-’Q Alexandre Oliveira Maciel Member of CE/2021 Mdwalmtwwlwawml Hildinah Carvalho Cabral Member of CE/2021 ~¢~»-©*‘LW’\