SICREDI COOMAMP Address: Rua dos Azulões, n° 01 – Office Tower Building, rooms 720 -723 – Jardim Renascença – CEP: 65075 -060 CNPJ: 05.545.390/0001 -07 NIRE: 21 4 0000838 -3 CALL NOTICE FOR MEETINGS GENERAL ORDINARY AND EXTRA RDINARY (Digital Modality) (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43 -A) The President of the Board of Directors of SICREDI COOMAMP - Credit Cooperative of Members of Public Career Institutions Legal and Federal, State and Municipal Public Servants in São Luís/MA and Surrounding Municipalities, using the powers conferred on it by article 26 of the Bylaws, summons the 2,061 (two thousand and sixty-one) associates, in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet at an ORDINARY and EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY, to be held on April 4, 2023, at 16:00h (sixteen hours), on first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two s thirds) of the associates; at 5:00 pm (seventeen hours) in the second call, with the presence of half of the members plus one, and at 18:00 (ten eight hours) in the third and final call, with the presence of at least 10 ( ten) associates. The Assemblies will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform* accessed via the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, to deliberate on the following matters: AGENDA OF THE DAY AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING: 1 - Consideration of the Management Report, General Balance Sheet and Accounting Statements, accompanied by the opinions of the Fiscal Council and Independent Audit and relating to the 2022 financial year; 2 - Allocation of works completed in the year just ended; 3 - Reversal of IR provisioning under surplus (5%) for 2019; IN EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY: 1 - Proposal for a broad reform of the Bylaws of Sicredi Coomamp. two - Approval of the Bylaws and its Consolidation. 3 - Approval of Norms and Regulations: a) Single Cooperative Electoral Code; b) Position Succession Policy for Senior Management of Individual Cooperatives - ratification of the existing policy, without changes, in accordance with CMN Resolution No. 4,878/20; Documents relating to the agenda and more detailed information on registration and use of the meeting participation tool will be available to members on the website www.sicredi.com.br/coomamp and at the cooperative's headquarters. To participate in the digital assembly, you must follow the following steps: 1. The member must check that their telephone number and email address are updated on Sicred i (APP), Internet Banking or by going to their cooperative; 2. Using the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, the member must register by creating a password; 3. On the day and time of the meeting, the member must access the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s again, enter your CPF and registered password, click on your cooperative's event and you will be able to participate in discussions and votes on items on the agenda; Members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of its holding, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, will be guaranteed the right to express themselves in writing, addressed to the table director, via chat, thus safeguarding her full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool. The Assembly will be held in an exclusively digital format, based on art. 43 -A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN -DRE I nº 81/2 020, and electronically recorded for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. São Luís - MA, March 25, 202 3. João Leonardo Sousa Pires Le al President of the Board of Directors *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: members must access the tool through the website www .sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, at which time you will be admitted to the Assembly. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time.