Information classification: Internal use SICREDI COOMAMP Address: Rua dos Azulões, n° 01 – Office Tower Building, rooms 720 -723 – Jardim Renascença – CEP: 65075 -060 CNPJ: 05.545.390/0001 -07 NIRE: 21 4 0000838 - 3 CALL NOTICE FOR ORDINARY AND EXTRA ORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS (Digital Modality) (IN-DREI nº 81/2020 and Law 5764/71 article 43 -A) The Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of SICREDI COOMAMP - Cooperativa de Credit of Members of Public Institutions of Legal Careers and Federal, State and Municipal Public Servants in São Luís/MA and Surrounding Municipalities, in the use of the attributions conferred by article 26 of the Bylaws, summons the 2,097 (two thousand and ninety-seven) members, in full enjoyment of their social rights, to meet at an ORDINARY and EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING, to be held on March 25, 2022, at 3:00 pm (fifteen hours) , in first call, with the presence of 2/3 (two thirds) of the members; at 16:00h (sixteen hours) in the second call, with the presence of half of the members plus one, and at 17:00h (sixteen hours) in the third and final call, with the presence of at least 10 (ten) associates. The Assemblies will be held digitally for all members, using the Digital Assembly platform* accessed through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, to deliberate on the following matters: AGENDA OF THE DAY AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING: 1 - Consideration of the Management Report, General Balance Sheet and Financial Statements, accompanied by the opinions of the Fiscal Council and Independent Audit and relating to the 2021 Financial Year; 2 - Allocation of works completed in the year just ended; 3 – Change in the nomenclature of Executive Board positions; 4 – Setting the value of fees, representation funds and D’s attendance card Executive Board, Board of Directors and Fiscal Council. IN EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL EMBLEY ASSESSMENT: 1 - Reform of the Cooperative's Bylaws, comprising the following provisions: a) Proposal to delete item XII of Article 52, which deals with the performance of the functions of the Supervisory Board; 2 - Approval of the consolidation of the Bylaws. Classification of information: Internal Use Documents relating to the agenda and information More details on registration and use of the assembly participation tool will be available to members on the website www.sicredi.com.br/coomamp and at the cooperative's headquarters. To participate in the digital assembly, you must follow the following steps: 1. The member must check that their telephone number and email address are updated on Sicredi (APP), Internet Banking or by going to their cooperative; 2. Through the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, the member must register by creating a password; 3. On the day and time of the assembly, the member must access the link www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s again, enter their CPF and registered password, click on their cooperative's event and they will be able to participate in the discussions and votes of the agenda items; To members who access the virtual meeting room at the time of the meeting, observing the day and time indicated in the preamble, duly registered in accordance with the previous paragraph, the right to express a written statement will be guaranteed, addressed to the board of directors, via chat, thus safeguarding their full participation under the terms of DREI Normative Instruction No. 81/2020. Voting will be carried out through an electronic system enabled at the time of the Assembly, with written voting via chat being permitted, exceptionally, only in the event of unavailability of the electronic tool. The Assembly will be carried out in exclusively digital format, based on art. 43 -A, of Law 5,764/71 and IN -DRE I nº 81/2020, and recorded electronically for possible analysis by regulatory authorities and/or members, upon formal request. São Luís - MA, March 12, 202 2. João Leonardo Sousa Pires Le al Chief Executive Officer President of the Board of Directors *Instructions for participation and voting on the Digital Assembly platform: members must access the tool through the website www.sicredi.com.br/assembleia s, registering and identifying yourself with your CPF and password, on the day and time indicated in the preamble, by any device with internet, registering for identification, opportunity at which your entry into the Assembly will be admitted. The digital mechanism used will allow members to identify themselves, as well as exercise their right to demonstrate and vote, through remote action, in real time.